Introduction 

Paul Auster has the key to the city. He has not, as far as I know, 
been presented with the literal object, traditionally an oversized 
ﬁve-pound  gold-plated  item,  dispensed  to  visiting  benefactors 
and favored natives on a dais in front of City Hall by a func-
tionary in top hat and claw hammer coat, but I doubt he needs 
one of those. Auster’s key is like the key to dreams or the key to 
the highway. It is an alchemical passe-partout that allows him 
to see through walls and around corners, that permits him entry 
to  corridors  and  substrata  and  sealed  houses  nobody  else  no-
tices, as well as to a ﬁeld of variegated phenomena once consid-
ered discrete, but whose coherence Auster has established. This 
territory is a realm within New York City, a current that runs 
along its streets, within its ofﬁce buildings and apartment houses 
and helter-skelter through its parks—a force ﬁeld charged by 
synchronicity  and  overlap,  perhaps  invisible  but  inarguably 
there,  although  it  was  never  identiﬁed  as  such  before  Auster 
planted his ﬂag. 

Auster’s characters peregrinate along this corridor as if it were 
a  moving  sidewalk,  or  like  the  dream  subway  devised  by  the 
cartoonist Ben Katchor, which stops in individual apartments. 
Quinn, in City of Glass, and Blue, in Ghosts, both stumble into 
it, to their enlightenment and discomﬁture, and the unseen Fan-
shawe, in The Locked Room, has gone to live there—the ques-
tion is whether any of them is able to emerge from it. If you have 
spent time in New York City and fully engaged with the place, 
chances are that you will have caught glimpses of that space-time 
continuum. You will have noticed certain cryptic grafﬁti, certain 
glossolaliac manifestos crammed onto photocopied sheets that 

x 

introduction 

you did not understand because they were written in the language 
of that slipstream. You will have wondered about various street 
characters—itinerant performers and site-speciﬁc eccentrics and 
inexplicable middle-of-the-night apparitions—who are, it turns 
out, commuters from that realm into the workaday world. But 
it may be, in fact, the essence of the city, while what passes for 
the city in the average experience is nothing more than a thin 
coat of paint. 

Auster’s characters know that you can practice a form of div-
ination by reading the sidewalks, that capricious telephone calls 
can link people in ways that may seem random but end up seal-
ing their fates, that you can pass through the streets completely 
unseen while making no special effort to disguise yourself or 
hide,  that  you  can  pass  through  your  life  in  the  city  without 
leaving any more of a mark than if you had never been born, 
that you probably have a double out there somewhere among 
the eight million whose life runs such a close parallel to yours 
that the lines never converge—although if they ever do: beware. 
These things prove that the city has been around for millennia, 
although it was not always located at the mouth of the Hudson 
River, or even in North America. It was not even always a city. 
For a long time it was known as a forest. It was, in fact, the 
primeval forest, inhabited by trickster foxes and stolid pigs and 
woebegone  wolves  and  the  occasional  shape-shifting  human, 
but it was recognizably the same labyrinth of chance. 

The chief difference between Auster’s city and that forest is 
that the trees have become buildings and their leaves have be-
come paper. The paper is covered with writing and gathered into 
manuscripts and notebooks, of preference red. Some of these are 
eventually transubstantiated into printed books, but often they 
subsist as manuscripts and notebooks, which usually ﬁnd a read-
ership of one besides their authors. Their contents are often cryp-
tic, often coded, sometimes dull, sometimes so disturbing that 
their readers cannot responsibly give an account but can respond 
only by destroying them. Those manuscripts and notebooks that 
cannot be published usually have the deepest connection with the 
truth, and that truth is either arcane and difﬁcult to perceive or 
else it is painful enough to be considered an abomination. 

introduction 

xi 

Fates pivot on these unread texts, which are in each case the 
focus or the result of an inquiry by a metaphysical detective. 
These  detectives  may  bear  a  superﬁcial  or  circumstantial  re-
semblance to the classic detectives of the eponymous genre of 
fiction—about the same kind of resemblance that those char-
acters in turn have to actual workaday investigators—but in 
essence Auster’s detectives are pilgrims, questers. They would be 
more immediately recognizable in the forest, striding along with 
staff in hand and bindle on back, maybe whistling to keep the 
shadows at bay. And like the blameless pilgrim who ventures 
forth into the forest with resolve but not without qualms, the de-
tective ultimately ﬁnds that his mission has led him through the 
labyrinth on a path that describes an irregular circle. 

There is also an author, who appears in each of the novels, 
who may or may not be called “Paul Auster” and may or may 
not share personality traits or biographical elements with the 
person whose name appears on the spine. He is, in the ﬁnest 
tradition, merely a witness, moved to transmit the story while 
maintaining  a  measured  reserve.  Or  is  he  perhaps  the  central 
character, setting up a lookalike as a blind to cover the degree of 
his involvement? Auster encourages this line of speculation, which 
is a labyrinth of another sort and bears a pedigree which—as he 
reminds us, rifﬁng under his own name on the conundrum of 
Don Quixote—far predates postmodernism. If the city is a for-
est and the detective is a pilgrim, the author is a pilgrim as well. 
He  is  the  one  who  makes  it  out  alive,  who  can  exchange  his 
story for supper and a bed of straw. 

There have been, in two hundred years, a great many novels 
and stories set in New York City, but until Paul Auster’s trilogy 
no one had made a serious effort to demonstrate its extreme an-
tiquity,  its  surface  ﬂimsiness  compared  to  its  massive  subter-
ranean depths, its claim on the origins of stories far older than 
written culture. But now we know, and that truth will inhere no 
matter how many times the city is reconﬁgured and how thor-
oughly  living  memory  is  banished  from  it.  Auster,  who  owns 
the key, makes its use available to all readers. 

1 

It  was  a  wrong  number  that  started  it,  the  telephone  ringing 
three times in the dead of night, and the voice on the other end 
asking for someone he was not. Much later, when he was able 
to think about the things that happened to him, he would con-
clude that nothing was real except chance. But that was much 
later. In the beginning, there was simply the event and its conse-
quences.  Whether  it  might  have  turned  out  differently,  or 
whether it was all predetermined with the ﬁrst word that came 
from the stranger’s mouth, is not the question. The question is 
the story itself, and whether or not it means something is not 
for the story to tell. 

As for Quinn, there is little that need detain us. Who he was, 
where he came from, and what he did are of no great impor-
tance. We know, for example, that he was thirty-ﬁve years old. 
We know that he had once been married, had once been a fa-
ther, and that both his wife and son were now dead. We also 
know  that  he  wrote  books.  To  be  precise,  we  know  that  he 
wrote  mystery  novels.  These  works  were  written  under  the 
name of William Wilson, and he produced them at the rate of 
about one a year, which brought in enough money for him to 
live modestly in a small New York apartment. Because he spent 
no  more  than  ﬁve  or  six  months  on  a  novel,  for  the  rest  of 
the year he was free to do as he wished. He read many books, 
he looked at paintings, he went to the movies. In the summer he 
watched  baseball  on  television;  in  the  winter  he  went  to  the 
opera. More than anything else, however, what he liked to do 
was walk. Nearly every day, rain or shine, hot or cold, he would 
leave  his  apartment  to  walk  through  the  city—never  really 

4 

the new york trilogy 

going anywhere, but simply going wherever his legs happened 
to take him. 

New York was an inexhaustible space, a labyrinth of endless 
steps, and no matter how far he walked, no matter how well he 
came to know its neighborhoods and streets, it always left him 
with  the  feeling  of  being  lost.  Lost,  not  only  in  the  city,  but 
within  himself  as  well.  Each  time  he  took  a  walk,  he  felt  as 
though he were leaving himself behind, and by giving himself 
up to the movement of the streets, by reducing himself to a see-
ing eye, he was able to escape the obligation to think, and this, 
more  than  anything  else,  brought  him  a  measure  of  peace,  a 
salutary  emptiness  within.  The  world  was  outside  of  him, 
around  him,  before  him,  and  the  speed  with  which  it  kept 
changing made it impossible for him to dwell on any one thing 
for very long. Motion was of the essence, the act of putting one 
foot  in  front  of  the  other  and  allowing  himself  to  follow  the 
drift  of  his  own  body.  By  wandering  aimlessly,  all  places  be-
came  equal,  and  it  no  longer  mattered  where  he  was.  On  his 
best walks, he was able to feel that he was nowhere. And this, 
ﬁnally,  was  all  he  ever  asked  of  things:  to  be  nowhere.  New 
York was the nowhere he had built around himself, and he real-
ized that he had no intention of ever leaving it again. 

In the past, Quinn had been more ambitious. As a young man 
he  had  published  several  books  of  poetry,  had  written  plays, 
critical essays, and had worked on a number of long transla-
tions. But quite abruptly, he had given up all that. A part of him 
had  died,  he  told  his  friends,  and  he  did  not  want  it  coming 
back to haunt him. It was then that he had taken on the name 
of William Wilson. Quinn was no longer that part of him that 
could write books, and although in many ways Quinn contin-
ued to exist, he no longer existed for anyone but himself. 

He had continued to write because it was the only thing he 
felt he could do. Mystery novels seemed a reasonable solution. 
He  had  little  trouble  inventing  the  intricate  stories  they  re-
quired, and he wrote well, often in spite of himself, as if with-
out  having  to  make  an  effort.  Because  he  did  not  consider 
himself to be the author of what he wrote, he did not feel re-
sponsible for it and therefore was not compelled to defend it in 

city of glass 

5 

his heart. William Wilson, after all, was an invention, and even 
though he had been born within Quinn himself, he now led an 
independent  life.  Quinn  treated  him  with  deference,  at  times 
even admiration, but he never went so far as to believe that he 
and William Wilson were the same man. It was for this reason 
that he did not emerge from behind the mask of his pseudonym. 
He had an agent, but they had never met. Their contacts were 
conﬁned  to  the  mail,  for  which  purpose  Quinn  had  rented  a 
numbered box at the post ofﬁce. The same was true of the pub-
lisher,  who  paid  all  fees,  monies,  and  royalties  to  Quinn 
through the agent. No book by William Wilson ever included 
an author’s photograph or biographical note. William Wilson 
was not listed in any writers’ directory, he did not give inter-
views,  and  all  the  letters  he  received  were  answered  by  his 
agent’s secretary. As far as Quinn could tell, no one knew his 
secret. In the beginning, when his friends learned that he had 
given up writing, they would ask him how he was planning to 
live. He told them all the same thing: that he had inherited a 
trust  fund  from  his  wife.  But  the  fact  was  that  his  wife  had 
never had any money. And the fact was that he no longer had 
any friends. 

It had been more than ﬁve years now. He did not think about 
his son very much anymore, and only recently he had removed 
the photograph of his wife from the wall. Every once in a while, 
he would suddenly feel what it had been like to hold the three-
year-old  boy  in  his  arms—but  that  was  not  exactly  thinking, 
nor  was  it  even  remembering.  It  was  a  physical  sensation,  an 
imprint of the past that had been left in his body, and he had no 
control over it. These moments came less often now, and for the 
most part it seemed as though things had begun to change for 
him. He no longer wished to be dead. At the same time, it can-
not be said that he was glad to be alive. But at least he did not 
resent it. He was alive, and the stubbornness of this fact had lit-
tle by little begun to fascinate him—as if he had managed to 
outlive himself, as if he were somehow living a posthumous life. 
He  did  not  sleep  with  the  lamp  on  anymore,  and  for  many 
months now he had not remembered any of his dreams. 

6 

the new york trilogy 

It was night. Quinn lay in bed smoking a cigarette, listening to 
the rain beat against the window. He wondered when it would 
stop  and  whether  he  would  feel  like  taking  a  long  walk  or  a 
short walk in the morning. An open copy of Marco Polo’s Trav-
els lay face down on the pillow beside him. Since ﬁnishing the 
latest William Wilson novel two weeks earlier, he had been lan-
guishing.  His  private-eye  narrator,  Max  Work,  had  solved  an 
elaborate  series  of  crimes,  had  suffered  through  a  number  of 
beatings and narrow escapes, and Quinn was feeling somewhat 
exhausted by his efforts. Over the years, Work had become very 
close to Quinn. Whereas William Wilson remained an abstract 
ﬁgure for him, Work had increasingly come to life. In the triad 
of selves that Quinn had become, Wilson served as a kind of 
ventriloquist, Quinn himself was the dummy, and Work was the 
animated voice that gave purpose to the enterprise. If Wilson 
was an illusion, he nevertheless justiﬁed the lives of the other 
two. If Wilson did not exist, he nevertheless was the bridge that 
allowed Quinn to pass from himself into Work. And little by 
little, Work had become a presence in Quinn’s life, his interior 
brother, his comrade in solitude. 

Quinn picked up the Marco Polo and started reading the ﬁrst 
page again. “We will set down things seen as seen, things heard 
as heard, so that our book may be an accurate record, free from 
any sort of fabrication. And all who read this book or hear it 
may do so with full conﬁdence, because it contains nothing but 
the truth.” Just as Quinn was beginning to ponder the meaning 
of  these  sentences,  to  turn  their  crisp  assurances  over  in  his 
mind, the telephone rang. Much later, when he was able to re-
construct the events of that night, he would remember looking 
at the clock, seeing that it was past twelve, and wondering why 
someone should be calling him at that hour. More than likely, 
he thought, it was bad news. He climbed out of bed, walked 
naked to the telephone, and picked up the receiver on the sec-
ond ring. 
“Yes?” 
There was a long pause on the other end, and for a moment 
Quinn thought the caller had hung up. Then, as if from a great 
distance, there came the sound of a voice unlike any he had ever 

city of glass 

7 

heard. It was at once mechanical and ﬁlled with feeling, hardly 
more than a whisper and yet perfectly audible, and so even in 
tone  that  he  was  unable  to  tell  if  it  belonged  to  a  man  or  a 
woman. 

“Hello?” said the voice. 
“Who is this?” asked Quinn. 
“Hello?” said the voice again. 
“I’m listening,” said Quinn. “Who is this?” 
“Is this Paul Auster?” asked the voice. “I would like to speak 

to Mr. Paul Auster.” 

“There’s no one here by that name.” 
“Paul Auster. Of the Auster Detective Agency.” 
“I’m sorry,” said Quinn. “You must have the wrong number.” 
“This is a matter of utmost urgency,” said the voice. 
“There’s nothing I can do for you,” said Quinn. “There is no 

Paul Auster here.” 

“You don’t understand,” said the voice. “Time is running out.” 
“Then I suggest you dial again. This is not a detective agency.” 
Quinn hung up the phone. He stood there on the cold ﬂoor, 
looking down at his feet, his knees, his limp penis. For a brief 
moment he regretted having been so abrupt with the caller. It 
might have been interesting, he thought, to have played along 
with him a little. Perhaps he could have found out something 
about  the  case—perhaps  even  have  helped  in  some  way.  “I 
must learn to think more quickly on my feet,” he said to him-
self. 

Like most people, Quinn knew almost nothing about crime. He 
had never murdered anyone, had never stolen anything, and he 
did not know anyone who had. He had never been inside a po-
lice station, had never met a private detective, had never spoken 
to  a  criminal.  Whatever  he  knew  about  these  things,  he  had 
learned from books, ﬁlms, and newspapers. He did not, how-
ever, consider this to be a handicap. What interested him about 
the stories he wrote was not their relation to the world but their 
relation to other stories. Even before he became William Wil-
son, Quinn had been a devoted reader of mystery novels. He 
knew that most of them were poorly written, that most could 

8 

the new york trilogy 

not stand up to even the vaguest sort of examination, but still, it 
was  the  form  that  appealed  to  him,  and  it  was  the  rare,  un-
speakably bad mystery that he would refuse to read. Whereas 
his taste in other books was rigorous, demanding to the point of 
narrow-mindedness,  with  these  works  he  showed  almost  no 
discrimination whatsoever. When he was in the right mood, he 
had little trouble reading ten or twelve of them in a row. It was 
a kind of hunger that took hold of him, a craving for a special 
food, and he would not stop until he had eaten his ﬁll. 

What he liked about these books was their sense of plenitude 
and  economy.  In  the  good  mystery  there  is  nothing  wasted, 
no sentence, no word that is not signiﬁcant. And even if it is not 
signiﬁcant, it has the potential to be so—which amounts to the 
same thing. The world of the book comes to life, seething with 
possibilities, with secrets and contradictions. Since everything 
seen or said, even the slightest, most trivial thing, can bear a 
connection to the outcome of the story, nothing must be over-
looked.  Everything  becomes  essence;  the  center  of  the  book 
shifts with each event that propels it forward. The center, then, 
is  everywhere,  and  no  circumference  can  be  drawn  until  the 
book has come to its end. 

The  detective  is  one  who  looks,  who  listens,  who  moves 
through  this  morass  of  objects  and  events  in  search  of  the 
thought,  the  idea  that  will  pull  all  these  things  together  and 
make sense of them. In effect, the writer and the detective are 
interchangeable. The reader sees the world through the detec-
tive’s eyes, experiencing the proliferation of its details as if for 
the ﬁrst time. He has become awake to the things around him, 
as if they might speak to him, as if, because of the attentiveness 
he now brings to them, they might begin to carry a meaning 
other than the simple fact of their existence. Private eye. The 
term held a triple meaning for Quinn. Not only was it the letter 
“i,” standing for “investigator,” it was “I” in the upper case, 
the tiny life-bud buried in the body of the breathing self. At the 
same time, it was also the physical eye of the writer, the eye of 
the  man  who  looks  out  from  himself  into  the  world  and  de-
mands that the world reveal itself to him. For ﬁve years now, 
Quinn had been living in the grip of this pun. 

city of glass 

9 

He had, of course, long ago stopped thinking of himself as 
real. If he lived now in the world at all, it was only at one re-
move, through the imaginary person of Max Work. His detec-
tive  necessarily  had  to  be  real.  The  nature  of  the  books 
demanded it. If Quinn had allowed himself to vanish, to with-
draw into the conﬁnes of a strange and hermetic life, Work con-
tinued  to  live  in  the  world  of  others,  and  the  more  Quinn 
seemed to vanish, the more persistent Work’s presence in that 
world became. Whereas Quinn tended to feel out of place in his 
own  skin,  Work  was  aggressive,  quick-tongued,  at  home  in 
whatever spot he happened to ﬁnd himself. The very things that 
caused  problems  for  Quinn,  Work  took  for  granted,  and  he 
walked through the mayhem of his adventures with an ease and 
indifference that never failed to impress his creator. It was not 
precisely that Quinn wanted to be Work, or even to be like him, 
but it reassured him to pretend to be Work as he was writing his 
books, to know that he had it in him to be Work if he ever chose 
to be, even if only in his mind. 

That night, as he at last drifted off to sleep, Quinn tried to 
imagine  what  Work  would  have  said  to  the  stranger  on  the 
phone.  In  his  dream,  which  he  later  forgot,  he  found  himself 
alone in a room, ﬁring a pistol into a bare white wall. 

The  following  night,  Quinn  was  caught  off  guard.  He  had 
thought  the  incident  was  over  and  was  not  expecting  the 
stranger to call again. As it happened, he was sitting on the toi-
let, in the act of expelling a turd, when the telephone rang. It 
was  somewhat  later  than  the  previous  night,  perhaps  ten  or 
twelve minutes before one. Quinn had just reached the chap-
ter  that  tells  of  Marco  Polo’s  journey  from  Peking  to  Amoy, 
and the book was open on his lap as he went about his business 
in the tiny bathroom. The ringing of the telephone came as a 
distinct irritation. To answer it promptly would mean getting 
up without wiping himself, and he was loath to walk across the 
apartment in that state. On the other hand, if he ﬁnished what 
he was doing at his normal speed, he would not make it to the 
phone in time. In spite of this, Quinn found himself reluctant to 
move. The telephone was not his favorite object, and more than 

10 

the new york trilogy 

once  he  had  considered  getting  rid  of  his.  What  he  disliked 
most of all was its tyranny. Not only did it have the power to 
interrupt him against his will, but inevitably he would give in to 
its command. This time, he decided to resist. By the third ring, 
his bowels were empty. By the fourth ring, he had succeeded in 
wiping himself. By the ﬁfth ring, he had pulled up his pants, left 
the bathroom, and was walking calmly across the apartment. 
He answered the phone on the sixth ring, but there was no one 
at the other end. The caller had hung up. 

The next night, he was ready. Sprawled out on his bed, perusing 
the pages of The Sporting News, he waited for the stranger to 
call a third time. Every now and then, when his nerves got the 
better of him, he would stand up and pace about the apartment. 
He put on a record—Haydn’s opera Il Mondo della Luna—and 
listened to it from start to ﬁnish. He waited and waited. At two-
thirty, he ﬁnally gave up and went to sleep. 

He waited the next night, and the night after that as well. Just 
as he was about to abandon his scheme, realizing that he had 
been wrong in all his assumptions, the telephone rang again. It 
was May nineteenth. He would remember the date because it 
was his parents’ anniversary—or would have been, had his par-
ents been alive—and his mother had once told him that he had 
been  conceived  on  her  wedding  night.  This  fact  had  always 
appealed  to  him—being  able  to  pinpoint  the  ﬁrst  moment  of 
his existence—and over the years he had privately celebrated his 
birthday on that day. This time it was somewhat earlier than on 
the other two nights—not yet eleven o’clock—and as he reached 
for the phone he assumed it was someone else. 

“Hello?” he said. 
Again, there was a silence on the other end. Quinn knew at 

once that it was the stranger. 

“Hello?” he said again. “What can I do for you?” 
“Yes,” said the voice at last. The same mechanical whisper, 
the same desperate tone. “Yes. It is needed now. Without delay.” 

“What is needed?” 
“To speak. Right now. To speak right now. Yes.” 
“And who do you want to speak to?” 

city of glass 

11 

“Always  the  same  man.  Auster.  The  one  who  calls  himself 

Paul Auster.” 

This time Quinn did not hesitate. He knew what he was go-

ing to do, and now that the time had come, he did it. 

“Speaking,” he said. “This is Auster speaking.” 
“At last. At last l’ve found you.” He could hear the relief in 
the voice, the tangible calm that suddenly seemed to overtake it. 
“That’s right,” said Quinn. “At last.” He paused for a mo-
ment to let the words sink in, as much for himself as for the 
other. “What can I do for you?” 

“I need help,” said the voice. “There is great danger. They say 

you are the best one to do these things.” 

“It depends on what things you mean.” 
“I mean death. I mean death and murder.” 
“That’s not exactly my line,” said Quinn. “I don’t go around 

killing people.” 

“No,” said the voice petulantly. “I mean the reverse.” 
“Someone is going to kill you?” 
“Yes, kill me. That’s right. I am going to be murdered.” 
“And you want me to protect you?” 
“To protect me, yes. And to ﬁnd the man who is going to 

do it.” 

“You don’t know who it is?” 
“I know, yes. Of course I know. But I don’t know where he is.” 
“Can you tell me about it?” 
“Not  now.  Not  on  the  phone.  There  is  great  danger.  You 

must come here.” 

“How about tomorrow?” 
“Good. Tomorrow. Early tomorrow. In the morning.” 
“Ten o’clock?” 
“Good. Ten o’clock.” The voice gave an address on East 69th 

Street. “Don’t forget, Mr. Auster. You must come.” 

“Don’t worry,” said Quinn. “I’ll be there.” 

2 

The next morning, Quinn woke up earlier than he had in several 
weeks.  As  he  drank  his  coffee,  buttered  his  toast,  and  read 
through the baseball scores in the paper (the Mets had lost again, 
two to one, on a ninth inning error), it did not occur to him that 
he was going to show up for his appointment. Even that locution, 
his appointment, seemed odd to him. It wasn’t his appointment, 
it was Paul Auster’s. And who that person was he had no idea. 

Nevertheless, as time wore on he found himself doing a good 
imitation of a man preparing to go out. He cleared the table of 
the breakfast dishes, tossed the newspaper on the couch, went 
into the bathroom, showered, shaved, went on to the bedroom 
wrapped in two towels, opened the closet, and picked out his 
clothes for the day. He found himself tending toward a jacket 
and tie. Quinn had not worn a tie since the funerals of his wife 
and son, and he could not even remember if he still owned one. 
But there it was, hanging amidst the debris of his wardrobe. He 
dismissed  a  white  shirt  as  too  formal,  however,  and  instead 
chose a gray and red check affair to go with the gray tie. He put 
them on in a kind of trance. 

It was not until he had his hand on the doorknob that he be-
gan to suspect what he was doing. “I seem to be going out,” he 
said to himself. “But if I am going out, where exactly am I go-
ing?” An hour later, as he climbed from the number 4 bus at 
70th  Street  and  Fifth  Avenue,  he  still  had  not  answered  the 
question. To one side of him was the park, green in the morning 
sun,  with  sharp,  ﬂeeting  shadows;  to  the  other  side  was  the 
Frick,  white  and  austere,  as  if  abandoned  to  the  dead.  He 
thought  for  a  moment  of  Vermeer’s  Soldier  and  Young  Girl 

city of glass 

13 

Smiling, trying to remember the expression on the girl’s face, 
the exact position of her hands around the cup, the red back of 
the faceless man. In his mind, he caught a glimpse of the blue 
map on the wall and the sunlight pouring through the window, 
so like the sunlight that surrounded him now. He was walking. 
He was crossing the street and moving eastward. At Madison 
Avenue he turned right and went south for a block, then turned 
left and saw where he was. “I seem to have arrived,” he said to 
himself. He stood before the building and paused. It suddenly 
did not seem to matter anymore. He felt remarkably calm, as if 
everything had already happened to him. As he opened the door 
that  would  lead  him  into  the  lobby,  he  gave  himself  one  last 
word of advice. “If all this is really happening,” he said, “then 
I must keep my eyes open.” 

It was a woman who opened the apartment door. For some rea-
son, Quinn had not been expecting this, and it threw him off 
track. Already, things were happening too fast. Before he had a 
chance to absorb the woman’s presence, to describe her to him-
self and form his impressions, she was talking to him, forcing 
him to respond. Therefore, even in those ﬁrst moments, he had 
lost ground, was starting to fall behind himself. Later, when he 
had time to reﬂect on these events, he would manage to piece 
together his encounter with the woman. But that was the work 
of memory, and remembered things, he knew, had a tendency to 
subvert  the  things  remembered.  As  a  consequence,  he  could 
never be sure of any of it. 

The woman was thirty, perhaps thirty-ﬁve; average height at 
best; hips a touch wide, or else voluptuous, depending on your 
point of view; dark hair, dark eyes, and a look in those eyes 
that was at once self-contained and vaguely seductive. She wore 
a black dress and very red lipstick. 

“Mr. Auster?” A tentative smile; a questioning tilt to the head. 
“That’s right,” said Quinn. “Paul Auster.” 
“I’m Virginia Stillman,” the woman began. “Peter’s wife. He’s 

been waiting for you since eight o’clock.” 

“The appointment was for ten,” said Quinn, glancing at his 

watch. It was exactly ten. 

14 

the new york trilogy 

“He’s been frantic,” the woman explained. “I’ve never seen 

him like this before. He just couldn’t wait.” 

She opened the door for Quinn. As he crossed the threshold 
and entered the apartment, he could feel himself going blank, as 
if his brain had suddenly shut off. He had wanted to take in the 
details of what he was seeing, but the task was somehow be-
yond  him  at  that  moment.  The  apartment  loomed  up  around 
him as a kind of blur. He realized that it was large, perhaps ﬁve 
or six rooms, and that it was richly furnished, with numerous 
art objects, silver ashtrays, and elaborately framed paintings on 
the walls. But that was all. No more than a general impression— 
even though he was there, looking at those things with his own 
eyes. 

He found himself sitting on a sofa, alone in the living room. 
He remembered now that Mrs. Stillman had told him to wait 
there while she went to ﬁnd her husband. He couldn’t say how 
long  it  had  been.  Surely  no  more  than  a  minute  or  two.  But 
from  the  way  the  light  was  coming  through  the  windows,  it 
seemed to be almost noon. It did not occur to him, however, to 
consult  his  watch.  The  smell  of  Virginia  Stillman’s  perfume 
hovered around him, and he began to imagine what she looked 
like without any clothes on. Then he thought about what Max 
Work might have been thinking, had he been there. He decided 
to light a cigarette. He blew the smoke into the room. It pleased 
him to watch it leave his mouth in gusts, disperse, and take on 
new deﬁnition as the light caught it. 

He  heard  the  sound  of  someone  entering  the  room  behind 
him. Quinn stood up from the sofa and turned around, expect-
ing to see Mrs. Stillman. Instead, it was a young man, dressed 
entirely in white, with the white-blond hair of a child. Uncan-
nily, in that ﬁrst moment, Quinn thought of his own dead son. 
Then, just as suddenly as the thought had appeared, it vanished. 
Peter Stillman walked into the room and sat down in a red 
velvet armchair opposite Quinn. He said not a word as he made 
his way to his seat, nor did he acknowledge Quinn’s presence. 
The act of moving from one place to another seemed to require 
all his attention, as though not to think of what he was doing 
would reduce him to immobility. Quinn had never seen anyone 

city of glass 

15 

move in such a manner, and he realized at once that this was the 
same person he had spoken to on the phone. The body acted al-
most exactly as the voice had: machine-like, ﬁtful, alternating 
between slow and rapid gestures, rigid and yet expressive, as if 
the operation were out of control, not quite corresponding to 
the will that lay behind it. It seemed to Quinn that Stillman’s 
body had not been used for a long time and that all its functions 
had been relearned, so that motion had become a conscious pro-
cess,  each  movement  broken  down  into  its  component  sub-
movements,  with  the  result  that  all  ﬂow  and  spontaneity  had 
been  lost.  It  was  like  watching  a  marionette  trying  to  walk 
without strings. 

Everything about Peter Stillman was white. White shirt, open 
at the neck; white pants, white shoes, white socks. Against the 
pallor of his skin, the ﬂaxen thinness of his hair, the effect was 
almost transparent, as though one could see through to the blue 
veins behind the skin of his face. This blue was almost the same 
as the blue of his eyes: a milky blue that seemed to dissolve into a 
mixture  of  sky  and  clouds.  Quinn  could  not  imagine  himself 
addressing a word to this person. It was as though Stillman’s 
presence was a command to be silent. 

Stillman settled slowly into his chair and at last turned his at-
tention to Quinn. As their eyes met, Quinn suddenly felt that 
Stillman had become invisible. He could see him sitting in the 
chair across from him, but at the same time it felt as though he 
was not there. It occurred to Quinn that perhaps Stillman was 
blind. But no, that did not seem possible. The man was looking 
at  him,  even  studying  him,  and  if  recognition  did  not  ﬂicker 
across his face, it still held something more than a blank stare. 
Quinn  did  not  know  what  to  do.  He  sat  there  dumbly  in  his 
seat, looking back at Stillman. A long time passed. 

“No questions, please,” the young man said at last. “Yes. No. 
Thank you.” He paused for a moment. “I am Peter Stillman. I 
say this of my own free will. Yes. That is not my real name. No. 
Of course, my mind is not all it should be. But nothing can be 
done about that. No. About that. No, no. Not anymore. 

“You sit there and think: who is this person talking to me? 
What are these words coming from his mouth? I will tell you. Or 

16 

the new york trilogy 

else I will not tell you. Yes and no. My mind is not all it should 
be. I say this of my own free will. But I will try. Yes and no. I will 
try to tell you, even if my mind makes it hard. Thank you. 

“My name is Peter Stillman. Perhaps you have heard of me, 
but more than likely not. No matter. That is not my real name. 
My real name I cannot remember. Excuse me. Not that it makes 
a difference. That is to say, anymore. 

“This  is  what  is  called  speaking.  I  believe  that  is  the  term. 
When words come out, ﬂy into the air, live for a moment, and 
die.  Strange,  is  it  not?  I  myself  have  no  opinion.  No  and  no 
again. But still, there are words you will need to have. There are 
many of them. Many millions, I think. Perhaps only three or 
four.  Excuse  me.  But  I  am  doing  well  today.  So  much  better 
than usual. If I can give you the words you need to have, it will 
be a great victory. Thank you. Thank you a million times over. 
“Long ago there was mother and father. I remember none of 
that. They say: mother died. Who they are I cannot say. Excuse 
me. But that is what they say. 

“No mother, then. Ha ha. Such is my laughter now, my belly 
burst of mumbo jumbo. Ha ha ha. Big father said: it makes no 
difference. To me. That is to say, to him. Big father of the big 
muscles and the boom, boom, boom. No questions now, please. 
“I say what they say because I know nothing. I am only poor 
Peter  Stillman,  the  boy  who  can’t  remember.  Boo  hoo.  Willy 
nilly.  Nincompoop.  Excuse  me.  They  say,  they  say.  But  what 
does poor little Peter say? Nothing, nothing. Anymore. 

“There was this. Dark. Very dark. As dark as very dark. They 
say: that was the room. As if I could talk about it. The dark, 
I mean. Thank you. 

“Dark, dark. They say for nine years. Not even a window. 
Poor Peter Stillman. And the boom, boom, boom. The caca piles. 
The pipi lakes. The swoons. Excuse me. Numb and naked. Ex-
cuse me. Anymore. 

“There is the dark then. I am telling you. There was food in 
the dark, yes, mush food in the hush dark room. He ate with his 
hands. Excuse me. I mean Peter did. And if I am Peter, so much 
the better. That is to say, so much the worse. Excuse me. I am 
Peter Stillman. That is not my real name. Thank you. 

city of glass 

17 

“Poor Peter Stillman. A little boy he was. Barely a few words 
of his own. And then no words, and then no one, and then no, 
no, no. Anymore. 

“Forgive me, Mr. Auster. I see that I am making you sad. No 
questions,  please.  My  name  is  Peter  Stillman.  That  is  not  my 
real  name.  My  real  name  is  Mr.  Sad.  What  is  your  name, 
Mr. Auster? Perhaps you are the real Mr. Sad, and I am no one. 
“Boo hoo. Excuse me. Such is my weeping and wailing. Boo 
hoo, sob sob. What did Peter do in that room? No one can say. 
Some say nothing. As for me, I think that Peter could not think. 
Did he blink? Did he drink? Did he stink? Ha ha ha. Excuse 
me. Sometimes I am so funny. 

“Wimble  click  crumblechaw  beloo.  Clack  clack  bedrack. 
Numb noise, ﬂacklemuch, chewmanna. Ya, ya, ya. Excuse me. 
I am the only one who understands these words. 

“Later and later and later. So they say. It went on too long for 
Peter to be right in the head. Never again. No, no, no. They say 
that someone found me. I do not remember. No, I do not re-
member  what  happened  when  they  opened  the  door  and  the 
light came in. No, no, no. I can say nothing about any of this. 
Anymore. 

“For a long time I wore dark glasses. I was twelve. Or so they 
say. I lived in a hospital. Little by little, they taught me how to 
be Peter Stillman. They said: you are Peter Stillman. Thank you, 
I said. Ya, ya, ya. Thank you and thank you, I said. 

“Peter was a baby. They had to teach him everything. How to 
walk, you know. How to eat. How to make caca and pipi in 
the toilet. That wasn’t bad. Even when I bit them, they didn’t 
do the boom, boom, boom. Later, I even stopped tearing off my 
clothes. 

“Peter was a good boy. But it was hard to teach him words. 
His  mouth  did  not  work  right.  And  of  course  he  was  not  all 
there in his head. Ba ba ba, he said. And da da da. And wa wa 
wa. Excuse me. It took more years and years. Now they say to 
Peter: you can go now, there’s nothing more we can do for you. 
Peter Stillman, you are a human being, they said. It is good to 
believe what doctors say. Thank you. Thank you so very much. 
“I am Peter Stillman. That is not my real name. My real name 

18 

the new york trilogy 

is Peter Rabbit. In the winter I am Mr. White, in the summer I 
am Mr. Green. Think what you like of this. I say it of my own 
free will. Wimble click crumblechaw beloo. It is beautiful, is it 
not?  I  make  up  words  like  this  all  the  time.  That  can’t  be 
helped. They just come out of my mouth by themselves. They 
cannot be translated. 

“Ask  and  ask.  It  does  no  good.  But  I  will  tell  you.  I  don’t 
want you to be sad, Mr. Auster. You have such a kind face. You 
remind me of a somesuch or a groan, I don’t know which. And 
your  eyes  look  at  me.  Yes,  yes.  I  can  see  them.  That  is  very 
good. Thank you. 

“That is why I will tell you. No questions, please. You are 
wondering about all the rest. That is to say, the father. The ter-
rible father who did all those things to little Peter. Rest assured. 
They took him to a dark place. They locked him up and left 
him there. Ha ha ha. Excuse me. Sometimes I am so funny. 

“Thirteen years, they said. That is perhaps a long time. But I 
know nothing of time. I am new every day. I am born when I 
wake up in the morning, I grow old during the day, and I die at 
night when I go to sleep. It is not my fault. I am doing so well 
today. I am doing so much better than I have ever done before. 
“For  thirteen  years  the  father  was  away.  His  name  is  Peter 
Stillman too. Strange, is it not? That two people can have the 
same name? I do not know if that is his real name. But I do not 
think he is me. We are both Peter Stillman. But Peter Stillman is 
not my real name. So perhaps I am not Peter Stillman, after all. 
“Thirteen years I say. Or they say. It makes no difference. I 
know nothing of time. But what they tell me is this. Tomorrow 
is the end of thirteen years. That is bad. Even though they say it 
is not, it is bad. I am not supposed to remember. But now and 
then I do, in spite of what I say. 

“He will come. That is to say, the father will come. And he 
will try to kill me. Thank you. But I do not want that. No, no. 
Not anymore. Peter lives now. Yes. All is not right in his head, 
but still he lives. And that is something, is it not? You bet your 
bottom dollar. Ha ha ha. 

“I am mostly now a poet. Every day I sit in my room and 
write another poem. I make up all the words myself, just like 

city of glass 

19 

when I lived in the dark. I begin to remember things that way, to 
pretend that I am back in the dark again. I am the only one who 
knows what the words mean. They cannot be translated. These 
poems will make me famous. Hit the nail on the head. Ya, ya, 
ya. Beautiful poems. So beautiful the whole world will weep. 

“Later perhaps I will do something else. After I am done be-
ing  a  poet.  Sooner  or  later  I  will  run  out  of  words,  you  see. 
Everyone has just so many words inside him. And then where 
will I be? I think I would like to be a ﬁreman after that. And 
after that a doctor. It makes no difference. The last thing I will 
be is a high-wire walker. When I am very old and have at last 
learned how to walk like other people. Then I will dance on the 
wire, and people will be amazed. Even little children. That is 
what I would like. To dance on the wire until I die. 

“But no matter. It makes no difference. To me. As you can 
see, I am a rich man. I do not have to worry. No, no. Not about 
that. You bet your bottom dollar. The father was rich, and little 
Peter got all his money after they locked him up in the dark. Ha 
ha ha. Excuse me for laughing. Sometimes I am so funny. 

“I am the last of the Stillmans. That was quite a family, or so 
they say. From old Boston, in case you might have heard of it. 
I am the last one. There are no others. I am the end of everyone, 
the last man. So much the better, I think. It is not a pity that it 
should all end now. It is good for everyone to be dead. 

“The father was perhaps not really bad. At least I say so now. 
He had a big head. As big as very big, which meant there was 
too much room in there. So many thoughts in that big head of 
his. But poor Peter, was he not? And in terrible straits indeed. 
Peter who could not see or say, who could not think or do. Pe-
ter who could not. No. Not anything. 

“I  know  nothing  of  any  of  this.  Nor  do  I  understand.  My 
wife is the one who tells me these things. She says it is impor-
tant for me to know, even if I do not understand. But even this 
I do not understand. In order to know, you must understand. Is 
that not so? But I know nothing. Perhaps I am Peter Stillman, 
and perhaps I am not. My real name is Peter Nobody. Thank 
you. And what do you think of that? 

“So I am telling you about the father. It is a good story, even 

20 

the new york trilogy 

if I do not understand it. I can tell it to you because I know the 
words. And that is something, is it not? To know the words, I 
mean. Sometimes I am so proud of myself! Excuse me. This is 
what my wife says. She says the father talked about God. That 
is a funny word to me. When you put it backwards, it spells 
dog. And a dog is not much like God, is it? Woof woof. Bow 
wow. Those are dog words. I think they are beautiful. So pretty 
and true. Like the words I make up. 

“Anyway.  I  was  saying.  The  father  talked  about  God.  He 
wanted to know if God had a language. Don’t ask me what this 
means. I am only telling you because I know the words. The fa-
ther thought a baby might speak it if the baby saw no people. 
But what baby was there? Ah. Now you begin to see. You did 
not have to buy him. Of course, Peter knew some people words. 
That could not be helped. But the father thought maybe Peter 
would  forget  them.  After  a  while.  That  is  why  there  was  so 
much boom, boom, boom. Every time Peter said a word, his fa-
ther would boom him. At last Peter learned to say nothing. Ya 
ya ya. Thank you. 

“Peter kept the words inside him. All those days and months 
and  years.  There  in  the  dark,  little  Peter  all  alone,  and  the 
words made noise in his head and kept him company. That is 
why his mouth does not work right. Poor Peter. Boo hoo. Such 
are his tears. The little boy who can never grow up. 

“Peter  can  talk  like  people  now.  But  he  still  has  the  other 
words in his head. They are God’s language, and no one else 
can speak them. They cannot be translated. That is why Peter 
lives so close to God. That is why he is a famous poet. 

“Everything is so good for me now. I can do whatever I like. 
Any time, any place. I even have a wife. You can see that. I men-
tioned her before. Perhaps you have even met her. She is beauti-
ful, is she not? Her name is Virginia. That is not her real name. 
But that makes no difference. To me. 

“Whenever I ask, my wife gets a girl for me. They are whores. 
I put my worm inside them and they moan. There have been so 
many. Ha ha. They come up here and I fuck them. It feels good 
to fuck. Virginia gives them money and everyone is happy. You 
bet your bottom dollar. Ha ha. 

city of glass 

21 

“Poor Virginia. She does not like to fuck. That is to say, with 
me. Perhaps she fucks another. Who can say? I know nothing of 
this. It makes no difference. But maybe if you are nice to Vir-
ginia she will let you fuck her. It would make me happy. For 
your sake. Thank you. 

“So. There are a great many things. I am trying to tell them 
to you. I know that all is not right in my head. And it is true, 
yes, and I say this of my own free will, that sometimes I just 
scream and scream. For no good reason. As if there had to be a 
reason. But for none that I can see. Or anyone else. No. And 
then there are the times when I say nothing. For days and days 
on end. Nothing, nothing, nothing. I forget how to make the 
words come out of my mouth. Then it is hard for me to move. 
Ya ya. Or even to see. That is when I become Mr. Sad. 

“I  still  like  to  be  in  the  dark.  At  least  sometimes.  It  does 
me good, I think. In the dark I speak God’s language and no 
one can hear me. Do not be angry, please. I cannot help it. 

“Best of all, there is the air. Yes. And little by little, I have 
learned to live inside it. The air and the light, yes, that too, the 
light that shines on all things and puts them there for my eyes to 
see. There is the air and the light, and this best of all. Excuse me. 
The air and the light. Yes. When the weather is good, I like to 
sit by the open window. Sometimes I look out and watch the 
things below. The street and all the people, the dogs and cars, 
the bricks of the building across the way. And then there are the 
times when I close my eyes and just sit there, with the breeze 
blowing  on  my  face,  and  the  light  inside  the  air,  all  around 
me and just beyond my eyes, and the world all red, a beautiful 
red inside my eyes, with the sun shining on me and my eyes. 

“It is true that I rarely go out. It is hard for me, and I am not 
always to be trusted. Sometimes I scream. Do not be angry with 
me, please. I cannot help it. Virginia says I must learn how to 
behave in public. But sometimes I cannot help myself, and the 
screams just come out of me. 

“But I do love going to the park. There are the trees, and the 
air and the light. There is good in all that, is there not? Yes. Lit-
tle by little, I am getting better inside myself. I can feel it. Even 
Dr. Wyshnegradsky says so. I know that I am still the puppet 

22 

the new york trilogy 

boy. That cannot be helped. No, no. Anymore. But sometimes I 
think I will at last grow up and become real. 

“For now, I am still Peter Stillman. That is not my real name. 
I cannot say who I will be tomorrow. Each day is new, and each 
day I am born again. I see hope everywhere, even in the dark, 
and when I die I will perhaps become God. 

“There are many more words to speak. But I do not think I 
will speak them. No. Not today. My mouth is tired now, and I 
think the time has come for me to go. Of course, I know noth-
ing of time. But that makes no difference. To me. Thank you 
very much. I know you will save my life, Mr. Auster. I am count-
ing on you. Life can last just so long, you understand. Every-
thing else is in the room, with darkness, with God’s language, 
with  screams.  Here  I  am  of  the  air,  a  beautiful  thing  for  the 
light to shine on. Perhaps you will remember that. I am Peter 
Stillman. That is not my real name. Thank you very much.” 

3 

The speech was over. How long it had lasted Quinn could not 
say. For it was only now, after the words had stopped, that he 
realized they were sitting in the dark. Apparently, a whole day 
had gone by. At some point during Stillman’s monologue the 
sun had set in the room, but Quinn had not been aware of it. 
Now he could feel the darkness and the silence, and his head 
was  humming  with  them.  Several  minutes  went  by.  Quinn 
thought that perhaps it was up to him to say something now, 
but he could not be sure. He could hear Peter Stillman breath-
ing heavily in his spot across the room. Other than that, there 
were  no  sounds.  Quinn  could  not  decide  what  to  do.  He 
thought of several possibilities, but then, one by one, dismissed 
them  from  his  mind.  He  sat  there  in  his  seat,  waiting  for  the 
next thing to happen. 

The sound of stockinged legs moving across the room ﬁnally 
broke the silence. There was the metal click of a lamp switch, 
and suddenly the room was ﬁlled with light. Quinn’s eyes auto-
matically turned to its source, and there, standing beside a table 
lamp to the left of Peter’s chair, he saw Virginia Stillman. The 
young man was gazing straight ahead, as if asleep with his eyes 
open.  Mrs.  Stillman  bent  over,  put  her  arm  around  Peter’s 
shoulder, and spoke softly into his ear. 

“It’s  time  now,  Peter,”  she  said.  “Mrs.  Saavedra  is  waiting 

for you.” 

Peter looked up at her and smiled. “I am ﬁlled with hope,” 

he said. 

Virginia Stillman kissed her husband tenderly on the cheek. 

“Say good-bye to Mr. Auster,” she said. 

24 

the new york trilogy 

Peter stood up. Or rather, he began the sad, slow adventure 
of maneuvering his body out of the chair and working his way 
to his feet. At each stage there were relapses, crumplings, cata-
pults back, accompanied by sudden ﬁts of immobility, grunts, 
words whose meaning Quinn could not decipher. 

At last Peter was upright. He stood in front of his chair with 
an expression of triumph and looked Quinn in the eyes. Then 
he smiled, broadly and without self-consciousness. 

“Good-bye,” he said. 
“Good-bye, Peter,” said Quinn. 
Peter gave a little spastic wave of the hand and then slowly 
turned  and  walked  across  the  room.  He  tottered  as  he  went, 
listing ﬁrst to the right, then to the left, his legs by turns buck-
ling  and  locking.  At  the  far  end  of  the  room,  standing  in 
a lighted  doorway,  was  a  middle-aged  woman  dressed  in  a 
white nurse’s uniform. Quinn assumed it was Mrs. Saavedra. 
He followed Peter Stillman with his eyes until the young man 
disappeared through the door. 

Virginia Stillman sat down across from Quinn, in the same 

chair her husband had just occupied. 

“I could have spared you all that,” she said, “but I thought it 

would be best for you to see it with your own eyes.” 

“I understand,” said Quinn. 
“No, I don’t think you do,” the woman said bitterly. “I don’t 

think anyone can understand.” 

Quinn smiled judiciously and then told himself to plunge in. 
“Whatever I do or do not understand,” he said, “is probably be-
side the point. You’ve hired me to do a job, and the sooner I get 
on with it the better. From what I can gather, the case is urgent. 
I make no claims about understanding Peter or what you might 
have suffered. The important thing is that I’m willing to help. 
I think you should take it for what it’s worth.” 

He  was  warming  up  now.  Something  told  him  that  he  had 
captured the right tone, and a sudden sense of pleasure surged 
through him, as though he had just managed to cross some in-
ternal border within himself. 

“You’re  right,”  said  Virginia  Stillman.  “Of  course  you’re 

right.” 

city of glass 

25 

The  woman  paused,  took  a  deep  breath,  and  then  paused 
again, as if rehearsing in her mind the things she was about to 
say. Quinn noticed that her hands were clenched tightly around 
the arms of the chair. 

“I realize,” she went on, “that most of what Peter says is very 
confusing—especially the ﬁrst time you hear him. I was stand-
ing  in  the  next  room  listening  to  what  he  said  to  you.  You 
mustn’t assume that Peter always tells the truth. On the other 
hand, it would be wrong to think he lies.” 

“You mean that I should believe some of the things he said 

and not believe others.” 

“That’s exactly what I mean.” 
“Your  sexual  habits,  or  lack  of  them,  don’t  concern  me, 
Mrs. Stillman,” said Quinn. “Even if what Peter said is true, it 
makes no difference. In my line of work you tend to meet a lit-
tle of everything, and if you don’t learn to suspend judgment, 
you’ll never get anywhere. I’m used to hearing people’s secrets, 
and I’m also used to keeping my mouth shut. If a fact has no di-
rect bearing on a case, I have no use for it.” 

Mrs. Stillman blushed. “I just wanted you to know that what 

Peter said isn’t true.” 

Quinn shrugged, took out a cigarette, and lit it. “One way or 
the other,” he said, “it’s not important. What I’m interested in 
are the other things Peter said. I assume they’re true, and if they 
are, I’d like to hear what you have to say about them.” 

“Yes, they’re true.” Virginia Stillman released her grip on the 
chair  and  put  her  right  hand  under  her  chin.  Pensive.  As  if 
searching  for  an  attitude  of  unshakable  honesty.  “Peter  has  a 
child’s way of telling it. But what he said is true.” 

“Tell me something about the father. Anything you think is 

relevant.” 

“Peter’s father is a Boston Stillman. I’m sure you’ve heard of 
the family. There were several governors back in the nineteenth 
century, a number of Episcopal bishops, ambassadors, a Har-
vard president. At the same time, the family made a great deal 
of money in textiles, shipping, and God knows what else. The 
details are unimportant. Just so long as you have some idea of 
the background. 

26 

the new york trilogy 

“Peter’s father went to Harvard, like everyone else in the fam-
ily. He studied philosophy and religion and by all accounts was 
quite brilliant. He wrote his thesis on sixteenth- and seventeenth-
century theological interpretations of the New World, and then 
he took a job in the religion department at Columbia. Not long 
after that, he married Peter’s mother. I don’t know much about 
her.  From  the  photographs  I’ve  seen,  she  was  very  pretty.  But 
delicate—a little like Peter, with those pale blue eyes and white 
skin. When Peter was born a few years later, the family was liv-
ing in a large apartment on Riverside Drive. Stillman’s academic 
career was prospering. He rewrote his dissertation and turned it 
into a book—it did very well—and was made a full professor 
when he was thirty-four or thirty-ﬁve. Then Peter’s mother died. 
Everything about that death is unclear. Stillman claimed that she 
had died in her sleep, but the evidence seemed to point to sui-
cide. Something to do with an overdose of pills, but of course 
nothing could be proved. There was even some talk that he had 
killed her. But those were just rumors, and nothing ever came of 
it. The whole affair was kept very quiet. 

“Peter was just two at the time, a perfectly normal child. Af-
ter  his  wife’s  death,  Stillman  apparently  had  little  to  do  with 
him. A nurse was hired, and for the next six months or so she 
took  complete  care  of  Peter.  Then,  out  of  the  blue,  Stillman 
ﬁred her. I forget her name—a Miss Barber, I think—but she 
testiﬁed at the trial. It seems that Stillman just came home one 
day and told her that he was taking charge of Peter’s upbring-
ing. He sent in his resignation to Columbia and told them he 
was leaving the university to devote himself full-time to his son. 
Money, of course, was no object, and there was nothing anyone 
could do about it. 

“After that, he more or less dropped out of sight. He stayed 
on in the same apartment, but he hardly ever went out. No one 
really knows what happened. I think, probably, that he began 
to believe in some of the far-fetched religious ideas he had writ-
ten  about.  It  made  him  crazy,  absolutely  insane.  There’s  no 
other way to describe it. He locked Peter in a room in the apart-
ment,  covered  up  the  windows,  and  kept  him  there  for  nine 
years.  Try  to  imagine  it,  Mr.  Auster.  Nine  years.  An  entire 

city of glass 

27 

childhood spent in darkness, isolated from the world, with no 
human contact except an occasional beating. I live with the re-
sults  of  that  experiment,  and  I  can  tell  you  the  damage  was 
monstrous. What you saw today was Peter at his best. It’s taken 
thirteen years to get him this far, and I’ll be damned if I let any-
one hurt him again.” 

Mrs. Stillman stopped to catch her breath. Quinn sensed that 
she was on the verge of a scene and that one more word might 
put her over the edge. He had to speak now, or the conversation 
would run away from him. 

“How was Peter ﬁnally discovered?” he asked. 
Some of the tension went out of the woman. She exhaled au-

dibly and looked Quinn in the eyes. 

“There was a ﬁre,” she said. 
“An accidental ﬁre or one set on purpose?” 
“No one knows.” 
“What do you think?” 
“I think Stillman was in his study. He kept the records of his 
experiment there, and I think he ﬁnally realized that his work 
had been a failure. I’m not saying that he regretted anything he 
had done. But even taking it on his own terms, he knew he had 
failed. I think he reached some point of ﬁnal disgust with him-
self that night and decided to burn his papers. But the ﬁre got 
out of control, and much of the apartment burned. Luckily, Pe-
ter’s room was at the other end of a long hall, and the ﬁremen 
got to him in time.” 

“And then?” 
“It took several months to sort everything out. Stillman’s pa-
pers had been destroyed, which meant there was no concrete 
evidence.  On  the  other  hand,  there  was  Peter’s  condition,  the 
room he had been locked up in, those horrible boards across 
the  windows,  and  eventually  the  police  put  the  case  together. 
Stillman was ﬁnally brought to trial.” 

“What happened in court?” 
“Stillman was judged insane and he was sent away.” 
“And Peter?” 
“He also went to a hospital. He stayed there until just two 

years ago.” 

28 

the new york trilogy 

“Is that where you met him?” 
“Yes. In the hospital.” 
“How?” 
“I was his speech therapist. I worked with Peter every day for 

ﬁve years.” 

“I don’t mean to pry. But how exactly did that lead to mar-

riage?” 

“It’s complicated.” 
“Do you mind telling me about it?” 
“Not really. But I don’t think you’d understand.” 
“There’s only one way to ﬁnd out.” 
“Well, to put it simply. It was the best way to get Peter out of 
the hospital and give him a chance to lead a more normal life.” 

“Couldn’t you have been made his legal guardian?” 
“The procedures were very complicated. And besides, Peter 

was no longer a minor.” 

“Wasn’t that an enormous self-sacriﬁce on your part?” 
“Not really. I was married once before—disastrously. It’s not 
something I want for myself anymore. At least with Peter there’s 
a purpose to my life.” 

“Is it true that Stillman is being released?” 
“Tomorrow.  He’ll  be  arriving  at  Grand  Central  in  the  eve-

ning.” 

“And you feel he might come after Peter. Is this just a hunch, 

or do you have some proof?” 

“A little of both. Two years ago, they were going to let Still-
man out. But he wrote Peter a letter, and I showed it to the au-
thorities. They decided he wasn’t ready to be released, after all.” 

“What kind of letter was it?” 
“An insane letter. He called Peter a devil boy and said there 

would be a day of reckoning.” 

“Do you still have the letter?” 
“No. I gave it to the police two years ago.” 
“A copy?” 
“I’m sorry. Do you think it’s important?” 
“It might be.” 
“I can try to get one for you if you like.” 
“I take it there were no more letters after that one.” 

city of glass 

29 

“No more letters. And now they feel Stillman is ready to be 
discharged.  That’s  the  ofﬁcial  view,  in  any  case,  and  there’s 
nothing  I  can  do  to  stop  them.  What  I  think,  though,  is  that 
Stillman simply learned his lesson. He realized that letters and 
threats would keep him locked up.” 

“And so you’re still worried.” 
“That’s right.” 
“But  you  have  no  precise  idea  of  what  Stillman’s  plans 

might be.” 

“Exactly.” 
“What is it you want me to do?” 
“I want you to watch him carefully. I want you to ﬁnd out 

what he’s up to. I want you to keep him away from Peter.” 

“In other words, a kind of gloriﬁed tail job.” 
“I suppose so.” 
“I think you should understand that I can’t prevent Stillman 
from coming to this building. What I can do is warn you about 
it. And I can make it my business to come here with him.” 

“I understand. As long as there’s some protection.” 
“Good. How often do you want me to check in with you?” 
“I’d like you to give me a report every day. Say a telephone 

call in the evening, around ten or eleven o’clock.” 

“No problem.” 
“Is there anything else?” 
“Just a few more questions. I’m curious, for example, to know 
how  you  found  out  that  Stillman  will  be  coming  into  Grand 
Central tomorrow evening.” 

“I’ve made it my business to know, Mr. Auster. There’s too 
much at stake here for me to leave it to chance. And if Stillman 
isn’t followed from the moment he arrives, he could easily dis-
appear without a trace. I don’t want that to happen.” 

“Which train will he be on?” 
“The six-forty-one, arriving from Poughkeepsie.” 
“I assume you have a photograph of Stillman?” 
“Yes, of course.” 
“There’s also the question of Peter. I’d like to know why you 
told him about all this in the ﬁrst place. Wouldn’t it have been 
better to have kept it quiet?” 

30 

the new york trilogy 

“I  wanted  to.  But  Peter  happened  to  be  listening  in  on  the 
other phone when I got the news of his father’s release. There 
was nothing I could do about it. Peter can be very stubborn, and 
I’ve learned it’s best not to lie to him.” 

“One last question. Who was it who referred you to me?” 
“Mrs. Saavedra’s husband, Michael. He used to be a police-
man, and he did some research. He found out that you were the 
best man in the city for this kind of thing.” 

“I’m ﬂattered.” 
“From  what  I’ve  seen  of  you  so  far,  Mr.  Auster,  I’m  sure 

we’ve found the right man.” 

Quinn took this as his cue to rise. It came as a relief to stretch 
his legs at last. Things had gone well, far better than he had ex-
pected, but his head hurt now, and his body ached with an ex-
haustion he had not felt in years. If he carried on any longer, he 
was sure to give himself away. 

“My fee is one hundred dollars a day plus expenses,” he said. 
“If you could give me something in advance, it would be proof 
that I’m working for you—which would ensure us a privileged 
investigator-client  relationship.  That  means  everything  that 
passes between us would be in strictest conﬁdence.” 

Virginia Stillman smiled, as if at some secret joke of her own. 
Or perhaps she was merely responding to the possible double 
meaning of his last sentence. Like so many of the things that 
happened to him over the days and weeks that followed, Quinn 
could not be sure of any of it. 

“How much would you like?” she asked. 
“It doesn’t matter. I’ll leave that up to you.” 
“Five hundred?” 
“That would be more than enough.” 
“Good. I’ll go get my checkbook.” Virginia Stillman stood 
up and smiled at Quinn again. “I’ll get you a picture of Peter’s 
father, too. I think I know just where it is.” 

Quinn thanked her and said he would wait. He watched her 
leave the room and once again found himself imagining what 
she would look like without any clothes on. Was she somehow 
coming on to him, he wondered, or was it just his own mind 

city of glass 

31 

trying to sabotage him again? He decided to postpone his med-
itations and take up the subject again later. 

Virginia Stillman walked back into the room and said, “Here’s 

the check. I hope I made it out correctly.” 

Yes,  yes,  thought  Quinn  as  he  examined  the  check,  every-
thing is tip-top. He was pleased with his own cleverness. The 
check,  of  course,  was  made  out  to  Paul  Auster,  which  meant 
that Quinn could not be held accountable for impersonating a 
private  detective  without  a  license.  It  reassured  him  to  know 
that he had somehow put himself in the clear. The fact that he 
would never be able to cash the check did not trouble him. He 
understood,  even  then,  that  he  was  not  doing  any  of  this  for 
money. He slipped the check into the inside breast pocket of his 
jacket. 

“I’m sorry there’s not a more recent photograph,” Virginia 
Stillman  was  saying.  “This  one  dates  from  more  than  twenty 
years ago. But I’m afraid it’s the best I can do.” 

Quinn looked at the picture of Stillman’s face, hoping for a 
sudden epiphany, some sudden rush of subterranean knowledge 
that  would  help  him  to  understand  the  man.  But  the  picture 
told him nothing. It was no more than a picture of a man. He 
studied it for a moment longer and concluded that it could just 
as easily have been anyone. 

“I’ll look at it more carefully when I get home,” he said, put-
ting it into the same pocket where the check had gone. “Taking 
the passage of time into account, I’m sure I’ll be able to recog-
nize him at the station tomorrow.” 

“I hope so,” said Virginia Stillman. “It’s terribly important, 

and I’m counting on you.” 

“Don’t worry,” said Quinn. “I haven’t let anyone down yet.” 
She walked him to the door. For several seconds they stood 
there in silence, not knowing whether there was something to 
add or if the time had come to say good-bye. In that tiny inter-
val, Virginia Stillman suddenly threw her arms around Quinn, 
sought out his lips with her own, and kissed him passionately, 
driving her tongue deep inside his mouth. Quinn was so taken 
off guard that he almost failed to enjoy it. 

32 

the new york trilogy 

When  he  was  at  last  able  to  breathe  again,  Mrs.  Stillman 
held him at arm’s length and said, “That was to prove that Pe-
ter wasn’t telling you the truth. It’s very important that you be-
lieve me.” 

“I believe you,” said Quinn. “And even if I didn’t believe you, 

it wouldn’t really matter.” 

“I just wanted you to know what I’m capable of.” 
“I think I have a good idea.” 
She  took  his  right  hand  in  her  two  hands  and  kissed  it. 
“Thank you, Mr. Auster. I really do think you’re the answer.” 
He promised he would call her the next night, and then he 
found himself walking out the door, taking the elevator down-
stairs, and leaving the building. It was past midnight when he 
hit the street. 

4 

Quinn had heard of cases like Peter Stillman before. Back in the 
days of his other life, not long after his own son was born, he 
had written a review of a book about the wild boy of Aveyron, 
and at the time he had done some research on the subject. As 
far as he could remember, the earliest account of such an exper-
iment  appeared  in  the  writings  of  Herodotus:  the  Egyptian 
pharaoh  Psamtik  isolated  two  infants  in  the  seventh  century 
b.c. and commanded the servant in charge of them never to ut-
ter a word in their presence. According to Herodotus, a notori-
ously unreliable chronicler, the children learned to speak—their 
ﬁrst  word  being  the  Phrygian  word  for  bread.  In  the  Middle 
Ages, the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II repeated the ex-
periment, hoping to discover man’s true “natural language” us-
ing  similar  methods,  but  the  children  died  before  they  ever 
spoke any words. Finally, in what was undoubtedly a hoax, the 
early-sixteenth-century  King  of  Scotland,  James  IV,  claimed 
that  Scottish  children  isolated  in  the  same  manner  wound  up 
speaking “very good Hebrew.” 

Cranks and ideologues, however, were not the only ones in-
terested  in  the  subject.  Even  so  sane  and  skeptical  a  man  as 
Montaigne considered the question carefully, and in his most 
important essay, the Apology for Raymond Sebond, he wrote: 
“I believe that a child who had been brought up in complete 
solitude, remote from all association (which would be a hard 
experiment to make), would have some sort of speech to ex-
press his ideas. And it is not credible that Nature has denied us 
this resource that she has given to many other animals. . . . But  
it is yet to be known what language this child would speak; and 

34 

the new york trilogy 

what has been said about it by conjecture has not much appear-
ance of truth.” 

Beyond  the  cases  of  such  experiments,  there  were  also  the 
cases of accidental isolation—children lost in the woods, sailors 
marooned on islands, children brought up by wolves—as well 
as the cases of cruel and sadistic parents who locked up their 
children, chained them to beds, beat them in closets, tortured 
them  for  no  other  reason  than  the  compulsions  of  their  own 
madness—and Quinn had read through the extensive literature 
devoted to these stories. There was the Scottish sailor Alexander 
Selkirk (thought by some to be the model for Robinson Crusoe) 
who had lived for four years alone on an island off the coast of 
Chile and who, according to the ship captain who rescued him 
in 1708, “had so much forgot his language for want of use, that 
we could scarce understand him.” Less than twenty years later, 
Peter of Hanover, a wild child of about fourteen, who had been 
discovered mute and naked in a forest outside the German town 
of Hamelin, was brought to the English court under the special 
protection  of  George  I.  Both  Swift  and  Defoe  were  given  a 
chance to see him, and the experience led to Defoe’s 1726 pam-
phlet,  Mere  Nature  Delineated.  Peter  never  learned  to  speak, 
however,  and  several  months  later  was  sent  to  the  country, 
where  he  lived  to  the  age  of  seventy,  with  no  interest  in  sex, 
money,  or  other  worldly  matters.  Then  there  was  the  case  of 
Victor, the wild boy of Aveyron, who was found in 1800. Under 
the  patient  and  meticulous  care  of  Dr.  Itard,  Victor  learned 
some of the rudiments of speech, but he never progressed be-
yond the level of a small child. Even better known than Victor 
was  Kaspar  Hauser,  who  appeared  one  afternoon  in  Nurem-
berg in 1828, dressed in an outlandish costume and barely able 
to utter an intelligible sound. He was able to write his name, 
but in all other respects he behaved like an infant. Adopted by 
the town and entrusted to the care of a local teacher, he spent 
his days sitting on the ﬂoor playing with toy horses, eating only 
bread and water. Kaspar nevertheless developed. He became an 
excellent horseman, became obsessively neat, had a passion for 
the colors red and white, and by all accounts displayed an ex-
traordinary  memory,  especially  for  names  and  faces.  Still,  he 

city of glass 

35 

preferred  to  remain  indoors,  shunned  bright  light,  and,  like 
Peter of Hanover, never showed any interest in sex or money. 
As the memory of his past gradually came back to him, he was 
able to recall how he had spent many years on the ﬂoor of a 
darkened room, fed by a man who never spoke to him or let 
himself be seen. Not long after these disclosures, Kasper was 
murdered by an unknown man with a dagger in a public park. 
It had been years now since Quinn had allowed himself to 
think of these stories. The subject of children was too painful 
for  him,  especially  children  who  had  suffered,  had  been  mis-
treated, had died before they could grow up. If Stillman was the 
man with the dagger, come back to avenge himself on the boy 
whose life he had destroyed, Quinn wanted to be there to stop 
him. He knew he could not bring his own son back to life, but 
at least he could prevent another from dying. It had suddenly 
become possible for him to do this, and standing there on the 
street now, the idea of what lay before him loomed up like a 
terrible dream. He thought of the little cofﬁn that held his son’s 
body and how he had seen it on the day of the funeral being 
lowered into the ground. That was isolation, he said to himself. 
That was silence. It did not help, perhaps, that his son’s name 
had also been Peter. 

5 

At  the  corner  of  72nd  Street  and  Madison  Avenue,  he  waved 
down a cab. As the car rattled through the park toward the West 
Side, Quinn looked out the window and wondered if these were 
the same trees that Peter Stillman saw when he walked out into 
the air and the light. He wondered if Peter saw the same things he 
did, or whether the world was a different place for him. And if a 
tree was not a tree, he wondered what it really was. 

After  the  cab  had  dropped  him  off  in  front  of  his  house, 
Quinn  realized  that  he  was  hungry.  He  had  not  eaten  since 
breakfast early that morning. It was strange, he thought, how 
quickly time had passed in the Stillman apartment. If his calcu-
lations were correct, he had been there for more than fourteen 
hours. Within himself, however, it felt as though his stay had 
lasted three or four hours at most. He shrugged at the discrep-
ancy  and  said  to  himself,  “I  must  learn  to  look  at  my  watch 
more often.” 

He  retraced  his  path  along  107th  Street,  turned  left  on 
Broadway, and began walking uptown, looking for a suitable 
place to eat. A bar did not appeal to him tonight—eating in the 
dark, the press of boozy chatter—although normally he might 
have welcomed it. As he crossed 112th Street, he saw that the 
Heights  Luncheonette  was  still  open  and  decided  to  go  in.  It 
was a brightly lit yet dreary place, with a large rack of girlie 
magazines on one wall, an area for stationery supplies, another 
area  for  newspapers,  several  tables  for  patrons,  and  a  long 
Formica counter with swivel stools. A tall Puerto Rican man in 
a white cardboard chef ’s hat stood behind the counter. It was 
his  job  to  make  the  food,  which  consisted  mainly  of  gristle-

city of glass 

37 

studded hamburger patties, bland sandwiches with pale toma-
toes and wilted lettuce, milkshakes, egg creams, and buns. To 
his  right,  ensconced  behind  the  cash  register,  was  the  boss,  a 
small balding man with curly hair and a concentration camp 
number tattooed on his forearm, lording it over his domain of 
cigarettes, pipes, and cigars. He sat there impassively, reading 
the night-owl edition of the next morning’s Daily News. 

The place was almost deserted at that hour. At the back table 
sat two old men in shabby clothes, one very fat and the other 
very thin, intently studying the racing forms. Two empty coffee 
cups sat on the table between them. In the foreground, facing 
the magazine rack, a young student stood with an open maga-
zine in his hands, staring at a picture of a naked woman. Quinn 
sat down at the counter and ordered a hamburger and a coffee. 
As the counterman swung into action, he spoke over his shoul-
der to Quinn. 

“Did you see the game tonight, man?” 
“I missed it. Anything good to report?” 
“What do you think?” 
For several years Quinn had been having the same conversa-
tion with this man, whose name he did not know. Once, when 
he had been in the luncheonette, they had talked about base-
ball, and now, each time Quinn came in, they continued to talk 
about it. In the winter, the talk was of trades, predictions, mem-
ories. During the season, it was always the most recent game. 
They were both Mets fans, and the hopelessness of that passion 
had created a bond between them. 

The counterman shook his head. “First two times up, King-
man hits solo shots,” he said. “Boom, boom. Big mothers—all 
the way to the moon. Jones is pitching good for once and things 
don’t look too bad. It’s two to one, bottom of the ninth. Pitts-
burgh gets men on second and third, one out, so the Mets go to 
the bullpen for Allen. He walks the next guy to load them up. 
The Mets bring the corners in for a force at home, or maybe they 
can get the double play if it’s hit up the middle. Peña comes up 
and chicken-shits a little grounder to ﬁrst and the fucker goes 
through Kingman’s legs. Two men score, and that’s it, bye-bye 
New York.” 

38 

the new york trilogy 

“Dave  Kingman  is  a  turd,”  said  Quinn,  biting  into  his 

hamburger. 

“But watch out for Foster,” said the counterman. 
“Foster’s washed up. A has-been. A mean-faced bozo.” Quinn 
chewed his food carefully, feeling with his tongue for stray bits 
of bone. “They should ship him back to Cincinnati by express 
mail.” 

“Yeah,”  said  the  counterman.  “But  they’ll  be  tough.  Better 

than last year, anyway.” 

“I don’t know,” said Quinn, taking another bite. “It looks 
good on paper, but what do they really have? Stearns is always 
getting hurt. They have minor leaguers at second and short, and 
Brooks can’t keep his mind on the game. Mookie’s good, but 
he’s raw, and they can’t even decide who to put in right. There’s 
still Rusty, of course, but he’s too fat to run anymore. And as 
for the pitching, forget it. You and I could go over to Shea to-
morrow and get hired as the top two starters.” 

“Maybe  I  make  you  the  manager,”  said  the  counterman. 

“You could tell those fuckers where to get off.” 

“You bet your bottom dollar,” said Quinn. 
After  he  ﬁnished  eating,  Quinn  wandered  over  to  the  sta-
tionery shelves. A shipment of new notebooks had come in, and 
the pile was impressive, a beautiful array of blues and greens 
and reds and yellows. He picked one up and saw that the pages 
had  the  narrow  lines  he  preferred.  Quinn  did  all  his  writing 
with a pen, using a typewriter only for ﬁnal drafts, and he was 
always on the lookout for good spiral notebooks. Now that he 
had embarked on the Stillman case, he felt that a new notebook 
was  in  order.  It  would  be  helpful  to  have  a  separate  place  to 
record his thoughts, his observations, and his questions. In that 
way, perhaps, things might not get out of control. 

He  looked  through  the  pile,  trying  to  decide  which  one  to 
pick. For reasons that were never made clear to him, he sud-
denly felt an irresistible urge for a particular red notebook at 
the bottom. He pulled it out and examined it, gingerly fanning 
the pages with his thumb. He was at a loss to explain to himself 
why  he  found  it  so  appealing.  It  was  a  standard  eight-and-
a-half-by-eleven notebook with one hundred pages. But some-

city of glass 

39 

thing about it seemed to call out to him—as if its unique destiny 
in the world was to hold the words that came from his pen. Al-
most embarrassed by the intensity of his feelings, Quinn tucked 
the red notebook under his arm, walked over to the cash regis-
ter, and bought it. 

Back  in  his  apartment  a  quarter  of  an  hour  later,  Quinn  re-
moved  the  photograph  of  Stillman  and  the  check  from  his 
jacket pocket and placed them carefully on his desk. He cleared 
the debris from the surface—dead matches, cigarette butts, ed-
dies of ash, spent ink cartridges, a few coins, ticket stubs, doo-
dles,  a  dirty  handkerchief—and  put  the  red  notebook  in  the 
center. Then he drew the shades in the room, took off all his 
clothes, and sat down at the desk. He had never done this be-
fore,  but  it  somehow  seemed  appropriate  to  be  naked  at  this 
moment. He sat there for twenty or thirty seconds, trying not to 
move, trying not to do anything but breathe. Then he opened 
the red notebook. He picked up his pen and wrote his initials, 
D.Q. (for Daniel Quinn), on the ﬁrst page. It was the ﬁrst time 
in more than ﬁve years that he had put his own name in one of 
his notebooks. He stopped to consider this fact for a moment 
but then dismissed it as irrelevant. He turned the page. For sev-
eral moments he studied its blankness, wondering if he was not 
a bloody fool. Then he pressed his pen against the top line and 
made the ﬁrst entry in the red notebook. 

Stillman’s face. Or: Stillman’s face as it was twenty years ago. Im-
possible to know whether the face tomorrow will resemble it. It is 
certain, however, that this is not the face of a madman. Or is this 
not a legitimate statement? To my eyes, at least, it seems benign, 
if not downright pleasant. A hint of tenderness around the mouth 
even. More than likely blue eyes, with a tendency to water. Thin 
hair even then, so perhaps gone now, and what remains gray, or 
even white. He bears an odd familiarity: the meditative type, no 
doubt high-strung, someone who might stutter, ﬁght with himself 
to stem the ﬂood of words rushing from his mouth. 

Little Peter. Is it necessary for me to imagine it, or can I accept 
it  on  faith?  The  darkness.  To  think  of  myself  in  that  room, 

40 

the new york trilogy 

screaming. I am reluctant. Nor do I think I even want to understand 
it. To what end? This is not a story, after all. It is a fact, something 
happening in the world, and I am supposed to do a job, one little 
thing, and I have said yes to it. If all goes well, it should even be 
quite simple. I have not been hired to understand—merely to act. 
This is something new. To keep it in mind, at all costs. 

And yet, what is it that Dupin says in Poe? “An identiﬁcation 
of the reasoner’s intellect with that of his opponent.” But here it 
would apply to Stillman senior. Which is probably even worse. 

As for Virginia, I am in a quandary. Not just the kiss, which 
might  be  explained  by  any  number  of  reasons;  not  what  Peter 
said  about  her,  which  is  unimportant.  Her  marriage?  Perhaps. 
The complete incongruity of it. Could it be that she’s in it for the 
money?  Or  somehow  working  in  collaboration  with  Stillman? 
That would change everything. But, at the same time, it makes no 
sense. For why would she have hired me? To have a witness to 
her apparent good intentions? Perhaps. But that seems too com-
plicated. And yet: why do I feel she is not to be trusted? 

Stillman’s face, again. Thinking for these past few minutes that 
I  have  seen  it  before.  Perhaps  years  ago  in  the  neighborhood— 
before the time of his arrest. 

To remember what it feels like to wear other people’s clothes. 
To  begin  with  that,  I  think.  Assuming  I  must.  Back  in  the  old 
days,  eighteen,  twenty  years  ago,  when  I  had  no  money  and 
friends would give me things to wear. J.’s old overcoat in college, 
for example. And the strange sense I would have of climbing into 
his skin. That is probably a start. 

And then, most important of all: to remember who I am. To 
remember who I am supposed to be. I do not think this is a game. 
On the other hand, nothing is clear. For example: who are you? 
And if you think you know, why do you keep lying about it? I 
have no answer. All I can say is this: listen to me. My name is 
Paul Auster. That is not my real name. 

6 

Quinn  spent  the  next  morning  at  the  Columbia  library  with 
Stillman’s book. He arrived early, the ﬁrst one there as the doors 
opened, and the silence of the marble halls comforted him, as 
though he had been allowed to enter some crypt of oblivion. 
After ﬂashing his alumni card at the drowsing attendant behind 
the desk, he retrieved the book from the stacks, returned to the 
third ﬂoor, and then settled down in a green leather armchair in 
one  of  the  smoking  rooms.  The  bright  May  morning  lurked 
outside like a temptation, a call to wander aimlessly in the air, 
but Quinn fought it off. He turned the chair around, position-
ing himself with his back to the window, and opened the book. 
The Garden and the Tower: Early Visions of the New World 
was divided into two parts of approximately equal length, “The 
Myth of Paradise” and “The Myth of Babel.” The ﬁrst concen-
trated  on  the  discoveries  of  the  explorers,  beginning  with 
Columbus and continuing on through Raleigh. It was Stillman’s 
contention that the ﬁrst men to visit America believed they had 
accidentally found paradise, a second Garden of Eden. In the 
narrative  of  his  third  voyage,  for  example,  Columbus  wrote: 
“For I believe that the earthly Paradise lies here, which no one 
can enter except by God’s leave.” As for the people of this land, 
Peter Martyr would write as early as 1505: “They seem to live 
in  that  golden  world  of  which  old  writers  speak  so  much, 
wherein men lived simply and innocently, without enforcement 
of laws, without quarrelling, judges, or libels, content only to 
satisfy nature.” Or, as the ever-present Montaigne would write 
more than half a century later: “In my opinion, what we actu-
ally  see  in  these  nations  not  only  surpasses  all  the  pictures 

42 

the new york trilogy 

which the poets have drawn of the Golden Age, and all their in-
ventions representing the then happy state of mankind, but also 
the conception and desire of philosophy itself.” From the very 
beginning,  according  to  Stillman,  the  discovery  of  the  New 
World  was  the  quickening  impulse  of  utopian  thought,  the 
spark that gave hope to the perfectibility of human life—from 
Thomas  More’s  book  of  1516  to  Gerónimo  de  Mendieta’s 
prophecy, some years later, that America would become an ideal 
theocratic state, a veritable City of God. 

There was, however, an opposite point of view. If some saw 
the Indians as living in prelapsarian innocence, there were oth-
ers who judged them to be savage beasts, devils in the form of 
men. The discovery of cannibals in the Caribbean did nothing 
to assuage this opinion. The Spaniards used it as a justiﬁcation 
to exploit the natives mercilessly for their own mercantile ends. 
For if you do not consider the man before you to be human, 
there are few restraints of conscience on your behavior towards 
him. It was not until 1537, with the papal bull of Paul III, that 
the Indians were declared to be true men possessing souls. The 
debate nevertheless went on for several hundred years, culmi-
nating  on  the  one  hand  in  the  “noble  savage”  of  Locke  and 
Rousseau—which  laid  the  theoretical  foundations  of  democ-
racy in an independent America—and, on the other hand, in the 
campaign to exterminate the Indians, in the undying belief that 
the only good Indian was a dead Indian. 

The second part of the book began with a new examination 
of the fall. Relying heavily on Milton and his account in Par-
adise  Lost—as  representing  the  orthodox  Puritan  position— 
Stillman claimed that it was only after the fall that human life 
as we know it came into being. For if there was no evil in the 
Garden, neither was there any good. As Milton himself put it in 
the  Areopagitica,  “It  was  out  of  the  rind  of  one  apple  tasted 
that  good  and  evil  leapt  forth  into  the  world,  like  two  twins 
cleaving together.” Stillman’s gloss on this sentence was exceed-
ingly thorough. Alert to the possibility of puns and wordplay 
throughout,  he  showed  how  the  word  “taste”  was  actually  a 
reference  to  the  Latin  word  “sapere,”  which  means  both  “to 
taste” and “to know” and therefore contains a subliminal refer-

city of glass 

43 

ence to the tree of knowledge: the source of the apple whose 
taste brought forth knowledge into the world, which is to say, 
good  and  evil.  Stillman  also  dwelled  on  the  paradox  of  the 
word “cleave,” which means both “to join together” and “to 
break apart,” thus embodying two equal and opposite signiﬁca-
tions, which in turn embodies a view of language that Stillman 
found to be present in all of Milton’s work. In Paradise Lost, 
for  example,  each  key  word  has  two  meanings—one  before 
the fall and one after the fall. To illustrate his point, Stillman 
isolated several of those words—sinister, serpentine, delicious— 
and showed how their prelapsarian use was free of moral con-
notations,  whereas  their  use  after  the  fall  was  shaded, 
ambiguous, informed by a knowledge of evil. Adam’s one task 
in the Garden had been to invent language, to give each crea-
ture and thing its name. In that state of innocence, his tongue 
had gone straight to the quick of the world. His words had not 
been merely appended to the things he saw, they had revealed 
their essences, had literally brought them to life. A thing and its 
name were interchangeable. After the fall, this was no longer 
true. Names became detached from things; words devolved into 
a collection of arbitrary signs; language had been severed from 
God. The story of the Garden, therefore, records not only the 
fall of man, but the fall of language. 

Later in the Book of Genesis there is another story about lan-
guage. According to Stillman, the Tower of Babel episode was 
an exact recapitulation of what happened in the Garden—only 
expanded, made general in its signiﬁcance for all mankind. The 
story takes on special meaning when its placement in the book 
is  considered:  chapter  eleven  of  Genesis,  verses  one  through 
nine. This is the very last incident of prehistory in the Bible. Af-
ter that, the Old Testament is exclusively a chronicle of the He-
brews.  In  other  words,  the  Tower  of  Babel  stands  as  the  last 
image before the true beginning of the world. 

Stillman’s commentaries went on for many pages. He began 
with a historical survey of the various exegetical traditions con-
cerning the story, elaborated on the numerous misreadings that 
had grown up around it, and ended with a lengthy catalogue 
of  legends  from  the  Haggadah  (a  compendium  of  rabbinical 

44 

the new york trilogy 

interpretations not connected with legal matters). It was gener-
ally accepted, wrote Stillman, that the Tower had been built in the 
year 1996 after the creation, a scant 340 years after the Flood, 
“lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth.” 
God’s  punishment  came  as  a  response  to  this  desire,  which 
contradicted a command that had appeared earlier in Genesis: 
“Be  fertile  and  increase,  ﬁll  the  earth  and  master  it.”  By  de-
stroying  the  Tower,  therefore,  God  condemned  man  to  obey 
this injunction. Another reading, however, saw the Tower as a 
challenge against God. Nimrod, the ﬁrst ruler of all the world, 
was  designated  as  the  Tower’s  architect:  Babel  was  to  be  a 
shrine that symbolized the universality of his power. This was 
the Promethean view of the story, and it hinged on the phrases 
“whose top may reach unto heaven” and “let us make a name.” 
The  building  of  the  Tower  became  the  obsessive,  overriding 
passion  of  mankind,  more  important  ﬁnally  than  life  itself. 
Bricks became more precious than people. Women laborers did 
not even stop to give birth to their children; they secured the 
newborn  in  their  aprons  and  went  right  on  working.  Appar-
ently,  there  were  three  different  groups  involved  in  the  con-
struction:  those  who  wanted  to  dwell  in  heaven,  those  who 
wanted  to  wage  war  against  God,  and  those  who  wanted  to 
worship  idols.  At  the  same  time,  they  were  united  in  their 
efforts—“And the whole earth was of one language, and of one 
speech”—and the latent power of a united mankind outraged 
God. “And the Lord said, Behold, the people is one, and they 
have all one language; and this they begin to do: and now noth-
ing will be restrained from them, which they have imagined to 
do.” This speech is a conscious echo of the words God spoke 
on expelling Adam and Eve from the Garden: “Behold, the man 
is become one of us, to know good and evil; and now, lest he 
put forth his hand, and take also of the tree of life, and eat, and 
live forever—Therefore the Lord God sent him forth from the 
garden of Eden. . . .” Still another reading held that the story 
was intended merely as a way of explaining the diversity of peo-
ples and languages. For if all men were descended from Noah 
and his sons, how was it possible to account for the vast differ-
ences among cultures? Another, similar reading contended that 

city of glass 

45 

the story was an explanation of the existence of paganism and 
idolatry—for  until  this  story  all  men  are  presented  as  being 
monotheistic in their beliefs. As for the Tower itself, legend had 
it that one third of the structure sank into the ground, one third 
was destroyed by ﬁre, and one third was left standing. God at-
tacked  it  in  two  ways  in  order  to  convince  man  that  the  de-
struction was a divine punishment and not the result of chance. 
Still, the part left standing was so high that a palm tree seen 
from the top of it appeared no larger than a grasshopper. It was 
also said that a person could walk for three days in the shadow 
of  the  Tower  without  ever  leaving  it.  Finally—and  Stillman 
dwelled  upon  this  at  great  length—whoever  looked  upon  the 
ruins of the Tower was believed to forget everything he knew. 

What all this had to do with the New World Quinn could not 
say. But then a new chapter started, and suddenly Stillman was 
discussing the life of Henry Dark, a Boston clergyman who was 
born in London in 1649 (on the day of Charles I’s execution), 
came  to  America  in  1675,  and  died  in  a  ﬁre  in  Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, in 1691. 

According  to  Stillman,  as  a  young  man  Henry  Dark  had 
served as private secretary to John Milton—from 1669 until the 
poet’s  death  ﬁve  years  later.  This  was  news  to  Quinn,  for  he 
seemed to remember reading somewhere that the blind Milton 
had dictated his work to one of his daughters. Dark, he learned, 
was an ardent Puritan, a student of theology, and a devoted fol-
lower of Milton’s work. Having met his hero one evening at a 
small gathering, he was invited to pay a call the following week. 
That led to further calls, until eventually Milton began to en-
trust Dark with various small tasks: taking dictation, guiding 
him  through  the  streets  of  London,  reading  to  him  from  the 
works of the ancients. In a 1672 letter written by Dark to his 
sister in Boston, he mentioned long discussions with Milton on 
the ﬁner points of Biblical exegesis. Then Milton died, and Dark 
was disconsolate. Six months later, ﬁnding England a desert, a 
land that offered him nothing, he decided to emigrate to Amer-
ica. He arrived in Boston in the summer of 1675. 

Little was known of his ﬁrst years in the New World. Still-
man speculated that he might have travelled westward, foraging 

46 

the new york trilogy 

out into unchartered territory, but no concrete evidence could 
be found to support this view. On the other hand, certain refer-
ences in Dark’s writings indicated an intimate knowledge of In-
dian customs, which led Stillman to theorize that Dark might 
possibly have lived among one of the tribes for a period of time. 
Be that as it may, there was no public mention of Dark until 
1682, when his name was entered in the Boston marriage reg-
istry  as  having  taken  one  Lucy  Fitts  as  his  bride.  Two  years 
later, he was listed as heading a small Puritan congregation on 
the outskirts of the city. Several children were born to the cou-
ple, but all of them died in infancy. A son John, however, born 
in 1686, survived. But in 1691 the boy was reported to have 
fallen accidentally from a second-story window and perished. 
Just one month later, the entire house went up in ﬂames, and 
both Dark and his wife were killed. 

Henry  Dark  would  have  passed  into  the  obscurity  of  early 
American life if not for one thing: the publication of a pamphlet 
in 1690 entitled The New Babel. According to Stillman, this lit-
tle work of sixty-four pages was the most visionary account of 
the new continent that had been written up to that time. If Dark 
had not died so soon after its appearance, its effect would no 
doubt  have  been  greater.  For,  as  it  turned  out,  most  of  the 
copies  of  the  pamphlet  were  destroyed  in  the  ﬁre  that  killed 
Dark. Stillman himself had been able to discover only one—and 
that by accident, in the attic of his family’s house in Cambridge. 
After years of diligent research, he had concluded that this was 
the only copy still in existence. 

The New Babel, written in bold, Miltonic prose, presented 
the  case  for  the  building  of  paradise  in  America.  Unlike  the 
other writers on the subject, Dark did not assume paradise to be 
a place that could be discovered. There were no maps that could 
lead a man to it, no instruments of navigation that could guide 
a man to its shores. Rather, its existence was immanent within 
man himself: the idea of a beyond he might someday create in 
the here and now. For utopia was nowhere—even, as Dark ex-
plained, in its “wordhood.” And if man could bring forth this 
dreamed-of place, it would only be by building it with his own 
two hands. 

city of glass 

47 

Dark based his conclusions on a reading of the Babel story as 
a prophetic work. Drawing heavily on Milton’s interpretation 
of the fall, he followed his master in placing an inordinate im-
portance on the role of language. But he took the poet’s ideas 
one step further. If the fall of man also entailed a fall of lan-
guage, was it not logical to assume that it would be possible to 
undo the fall, to reverse its effects by undoing the fall of lan-
guage, by striving to recreate the language that was spoken in 
Eden? If man could learn to speak this original language of in-
nocence, did it not follow that he would thereby recover a state 
of innocence within himself? We had only to look at the exam-
ple of Christ, Dark argued, to understand that this was so. For 
was Christ not a man, a creature of ﬂesh and blood? And did 
not Christ speak this prelapsarian language? In Milton’s  Par-
adise  Regained,  Satan  speaks  with  “double-sense  deluding,” 
whereas  Christ’s  “actions  to  his  words  accord,  his  words / To 
his large heart give utterance due, his heart / Contains of good, 
wise, just, the perfect shape.” And had God not “now sent his 
living Oracle / into the World to teach his ﬁnal will, / And sends 
his Spirit of Truth henceforth to dwell / in pious Hearts, an in-
ward Oracle / To all Truth requisite for me to know”? And, be-
cause of Christ, did the fall not have a happy outcome, was it 
not a felix culpa, as doctrine instructs? Therefore, Dark con-
tended, it would indeed be possible for man to speak the origi-
nal language of innocence and to recover, whole and unbroken, 
the truth within himself. 

Turning to the Babel story, Dark then elaborated his plan and 
announced his vision of things to come. Quoting from the sec-
ond verse of Genesis 11—“And it came to pass, as they journeyed 
from the east, that they found a plain in the land of Shi-nar; and 
they  dwelt  there”—Dark  stated  that  this  passage  proved  the 
westward movement of human life and civilization. For the city 
of Babel—or Babylon—was situated in Mesopotamia, far east of 
the land of the Hebrews. If Babel lay to the west of anything, it 
was  Eden,  the  original  site  of  mankind.  Man’s  duty  to  scatter 
himself across the whole earth—in response to God’s command 
to  “be  fertile . . . and  ﬁll  the  earth”—would  inevitably  move 
along  a  western  course.  And  what  more  western  land  in  all 

48 

the new york trilogy 

Christendom, Dark asked, than America? The movement of En-
glish settlers to the New World, therefore, could be read as the 
fulﬁllment  of  the  ancient  commandment.  America  was  the  last 
step in the process. Once the continent had been ﬁlled, the mo-
ment  would  be  ripe  for  a  change  in  the  fortunes  of  mankind. 
The impediment to the building of Babel—that man must ﬁll the 
earth—would  be  eliminated.  At  that  moment  it  would  again 
be possible for the whole earth to be of one language and one 
speech.  And  if  that  were  to  happen,  paradise  could  not  be  far 
behind. 

Just as Babel had been built 340 years after the Flood, so it 
would be, Dark predicted, exactly 340 years after the arrival of 
the Mayﬂower at Plymouth that the commandment would be 
carried out. For surely it was the Puritans, God’s newly chosen 
people, who held the destiny of mankind in their hands. Unlike 
the Hebrews, who had failed God by refusing to accept his son, 
these transplanted Englishmen would write the ﬁnal chapter of 
history before heaven and earth were joined at last. Like Noah 
in  his  ark,  they  had  traveled  across  the  vast  oceanic  ﬂood  to 
carry out their holy mission. 

Three hundred and forty years, according to Dark’s calcula-
tions,  meant  that  in  1960  the  ﬁrst  part  of  the  settlers’  work 
would  have  been  done.  At  that  point,  the  foundations  would 
have been laid for the real work that was to follow: the building 
of  the  new  Babel.  Already,  Dark  wrote,  he  saw  encouraging 
signs  in  the  city  of  Boston,  for  there,  as  nowhere  else  in  the 
world, the chief construction material was brick—which, as set 
forth in verse three of Genesis 11, was speciﬁed as the construc-
tion material of Babel. In the year 1960, he stated conﬁdently, 
the new Babel would begin to go up, its very shape aspiring to-
ward the heavens, a symbol of the resurrection of the human 
spirit.  History  would  be  written  in  reverse.  What  had  fallen 
would  be  raised  up;  what  had  been  broken  would  be  made 
whole. Once completed, the Tower would be large enough to 
hold  every  inhabitant  of  the  New  World.  There  would  be  a 
room for each person, and once he entered that room, he would 
forget everything he knew. After forty days and forty nights, he 

city of glass 

49 

would emerge a new man, speaking God’s language, prepared 
to inhabit the second, everlasting paradise. 

So ended Stillman’s synopsis of Henry Dark’s pamphlet, dated 
December 26, 1690, the seventieth anniversary of the landing of 
the Mayﬂower. 

Quinn let out a little sigh and closed the book. The reading 
room was empty. He leaned forward, put his head in his hands, 
and closed his eyes. “Nineteen sixty,” he said aloud. He tried to 
conjure up an image of Henry Dark, but nothing came to him. 
In his mind he saw only ﬁre, a blaze of burning books. Then, 
losing track of his thoughts and where they had been leading 
him, he suddenly remembered that 1960 was the year that Still-
man had locked up his son. 

He opened the red notebook and set it squarely on his lap. 
Just as he was about to write in it, however, he decided that he 
had had enough. He closed the red notebook, got up from his 
chair, and returned Stillman’s book to the front desk. Lighting 
a  cigarette  at  the  bottom  of  the  stairs,  he  left  the  library  and 
walked out into the May afternoon. 

7 

He made it to Grand Central well in advance. Stillman’s train 
was  not  due  to  arrive  until  six-forty-one,  but  Quinn  wanted 
time  to  study  the  geography  of  the  place,  to  make  sure  that 
Stillman  would  not  be  able  to  slip  away  from  him.  As  he 
emerged from the subway and entered the great hall, he saw by 
the clock that it was just past four. Already the station had be-
gun to ﬁll with the rush-hour crowd. Making his way through 
the press of oncoming bodies, Quinn made a tour of the num-
bered  gates,  looking  for  hidden  staircases,  unmarked  exits, 
dark alcoves. He concluded that a man determined to disappear 
could do so without much trouble. He would have to hope that 
Stillman had not been warned that he would be there. If that 
were  the  case,  and  Stillman  managed  to  elude  him,  it  would 
mean that Virginia Stillman was responsible. There was no one 
else.  It  solaced  him  to  know  that  he  had  an  alternate  plan  if 
things went awry. If Stillman did not show up, Quinn would go 
straight  to  69th  Street  and  confront  Virginia  Stillman  with 
what he knew. 

As he wandered through the station, he reminded himself of 
who he was supposed to be. The effect of being Paul Auster, he 
had  begun  to  learn,  was  not  altogether  unpleasant.  Although 
he still had the same body, the same mind, the same thoughts, he 
felt as though he had somehow been taken out of himself, as if 
he no longer had to walk around with the burden of his own 
consciousness. By a simple trick of the intelligence, a deft little 
twist of naming, he felt incomparably lighter and freer. At the 
same time, he knew it was all an illusion. But there was a cer-
tain  comfort  in  that.  He  had  not  really  lost  himself;  he  was 

city of glass 

51 

merely pretending, and he could return to being Quinn when-
ever he wished. The fact that there was now a purpose to his be-
ing Paul Auster—a purpose that was becoming more and more 
important to him—served as a kind of moral justiﬁcation for 
the charade and absolved him of having to defend his lie. For 
imagining  himself  as  Auster  had  become  synonymous  in  his 
mind with doing good in the world. 

He wandered through the station, then, as if inside the body 
of Paul Auster, waiting for Stillman to appear. He looked up at 
the vaulted ceiling of the great hall and studied the fresco of 
constellations. There were light bulbs representing the stars and 
line drawings of the celestial ﬁgures. Quinn had never been able 
to  grasp  the  connection  between  the  constellations  and  their 
names. As a boy he had spent many hours under the night sky 
trying to tally the clusters of pinprick lights with the shapes of 
bears, bulls, archers, and water carriers. But nothing had ever 
come of it, and he had felt stupid, as though there were a blind 
spot in the center of his brain. He wondered if the young Auster 
had been any better at it than he was. 

Across  the  way,  occupying  the  greater  part  of  the  station’s 
east wall, was the Kodak display photograph, with its bright, 
unearthly colors. The scene that month showed a street in some 
New  England  ﬁshing  village,  perhaps  Nantucket.  A  beautiful 
spring light shone on the cobblestones, ﬂowers of many colors 
stood in window boxes along the house fronts, and far down at 
the end of the street was the ocean, with its white waves and 
blue,  blue  water.  Quinn  remembered  visiting  Nantucket  with 
his wife long ago, in her ﬁrst month of pregnancy, when his son 
was  no  more  than  a  tiny  almond  in  her  belly.  He  found  it 
painful to think of that now, and he tried to suppress the pic-
tures  that  were  forming  in  his  head.  “Look  at  it  through 
Auster’s eyes,” he said to himself, “and don’t think of anything 
else.” He turned his attention to the photograph again and was 
relieved to ﬁnd his thoughts wandering to the subject of whales, 
to the expeditions that had set out from Nantucket in the last 
century, to Melville and the opening pages of Moby Dick. From 
there  his  mind  drifted  off  to  the  accounts  he  had  read  of 
Melville’s last years—the taciturn old man working in the New 

52 

the new york trilogy 

York  customs  house,  with  no  readers,  forgotten  by  everyone. 
Then, suddenly, with great clarity and precision, he saw Bartleby’s 
window and the blank brick wall before him. 

Someone tapped him on the arm, and as Quinn wheeled to 
meet the assault, he saw a short, silent man holding out a green 
and  red  ballpoint  pen  to  him.  Stapled  to  the  pen  was  a  little 
white paper ﬂag, one side of which read: “This good article is 
the Courtesy of a DEAF MUTE. Pay any price. Thank you for 
your help.” On the other side of the ﬂag there was a chart of the 
manual alphabet—LEARN TO SPEAK TO YOUR FRIENDS— 
that  showed  the  hand  positions  for  each  of  the  twenty-six 
letters.  Quinn  reached  into  his  pocket  and  gave  the  man  a 
dollar. The deaf mute nodded once very brieﬂy and then moved 
on, leaving Quinn with the pen in his hand. 

It was now past ﬁve o’clock. Quinn decided he would be less 
vulnerable in another spot and removed himself to the waiting 
room. This was generally a grim place, ﬁlled with dust and peo-
ple  with  nowhere  to  go,  but  now,  with  the  rush  hour  at  full 
force,  it  had  been  taken  over  by  men  and  women  with  brief-
cases, books, and newspapers. Quinn had trouble ﬁnding a seat. 
After  searching  for  two  or  three  minutes,  he  ﬁnally  found  a 
place on one of the benches, wedging himself between a man in 
a blue suit and a plump young woman. The man was reading the 
sports  section  of  the  Times,  and  Quinn  glanced  over  to  read 
the account of the Mets’ loss the night before. He had made it to 
the third or fourth paragraph when the man turned slowly toward 
him, gave him a vicious stare, and jerked the paper out of view. 
After that, a strange thing happened. Quinn turned his atten-
tion to the young woman on his right, to see if there was any 
reading  material  in  that  direction.  Quinn  guessed  her  age  at 
around twenty. There were several pimples on her left cheek, 
obscured by a pinkish smear of pancake makeup, and a wad of 
chewing  gum  was  crackling  in  her  mouth.  She  was,  however, 
reading  a  book,  a  paperback  with  a  lurid  cover,  and  Quinn 
leaned ever so slightly to his right to catch a glimpse of the title. 
Against  all  his  expectations,  it  was  a  book  he  himself  had 
written—Suicide  Squeeze  by  William  Wilson,  the  ﬁrst  of  the 
Max Work novels. Quinn had often imagined this situation: the 

city of glass 

53 

sudden, unexpected pleasure of encountering one of his readers. 
He had even imagined the conversation that would follow: he, 
suavely  difﬁdent  as  the  stranger  praised  the  book,  and  then, 
with great reluctance and modesty, agreeing to autograph the 
title page, “since you insist.” But now that the scene was taking 
place, he felt quite disappointed, even angry. He did not like the 
girl sitting next to him, and it offended him that she should be 
casually skimming the pages that had cost him so much effort. 
His  impulse  was  to  tear  the  book  out  of  her  hands  and  run 
across the station with it. 

He looked at her face again, trying to hear the words she was 
sounding out in her head, watching her eyes as they darted back 
and forth across the page. He must have been looking too hard, 
for a moment later she turned to him with an irritated expres-
sion on her face and said, “You got a problem, mister?” 

Quinn  smiled  weakly.  “No  problem,”  he  said.  “I  was  just 

wondering if you liked the book.” 

The girl shrugged. “I’ve read better and I’ve read worse.” 
Quinn wanted to drop the conversation right there, but some-
thing  in  him  persisted.  Before  he  could  get  up  and  leave,  the 
words were already out of his mouth. “Do you ﬁnd it exciting?” 
The girl shrugged again and cracked her gum loudly. “Sort 
of.  There’s  a  part  where  the  detective  gets  lost  that’s  kind  of 
scary.” 

“Is he a smart detective?” 
“Yeah, he’s smart. But he talks too much.” 
“You’d like more action?” 
“I guess so.” 
“If you don’t like it, why do you go on reading?” 
“I don’t know.” The girl shrugged once again. “It passes the 

time, I guess. Anyway, it’s no big deal. It’s just a book.” 

He was about to tell her who he was, but then he realized that 
it made no difference. The girl was beyond hope. For ﬁve years 
he had kept William Wilson’s identity a secret, and he wasn’t 
about to give it away now, least of all to an imbecile stranger. 
Still, it was painful, and he struggled desperately to swallow his 
pride. Rather than punch the girl in the face, he abruptly stood 
up from his seat and walked away. 

54 

the new york trilogy 

At six-thirty he posted himself in front of gate twenty-four. The 
train was due to arrive on time, and from his vantage in the cen-
ter  of  the  doorway,  Quinn  judged  that  his  chances  of  seeing 
Stillman  were  good.  He  took  out  the  photograph  from  his 
pocket and studied it again, paying special attention to the eyes. 
He remembered having read somewhere that the eyes were the 
one feature of the face that never changed. From childhood to 
old age they remained the same, and a man with the head to see 
it  could  theoretically  look  into  the  eyes  of  a  boy  in  a  photo-
graph and recognize the same person as an old man. Quinn had 
his doubts, but this was all he had to go on, his only bridge to 
the  present.  Once  again,  however,  Stillman’s  face  told  him 
nothing. 

The train pulled into the station, and Quinn felt the noise of 
it shoot through his body: a random, hectic din that seemed to 
join with his pulse, pumping his blood in raucous spurts. His 
head  then  ﬁlled  with  Peter  Stillman’s  voice,  as  a  barrage  of 
nonsense words clattered against the walls of his skull. He told 
himself to stay calm. But that did little good. In spite of what 
he had been expecting of himself at this moment, he was ex-
cited. 

The train was crowded, and as the passengers started ﬁlling 
the ramp and walking toward him, they quickly became a mob. 
Quinn  ﬂapped  the  red  notebook  nervously  against  his  right 
thigh, stood on his tiptoes, and peered into the throng. Soon the 
people were surging around him. There were men and women, 
children and old people, teenagers and babies, rich people and 
poor people, black men and white women, white men and black 
women, Orientals and Arabs, men in brown and gray and blue 
and green, women in red and white and yellow and pink, chil-
dren in sneakers, children in shoes, children in cowboy boots, 
fat people and thin people, tall people and short people, each 
one different from all the others, each one irreducibly himself. 
Quinn watched them all, anchored to his spot, as if his whole 
being had been exiled to his eyes. Each time an elderly man ap-
proached, he braced himself for it to be Stillman. They came 
and went too quickly for him to indulge in disappointment, but 

city of glass 

55 

in each old face he seemed to ﬁnd an augur of what the real 
Stillman would be like, and he rapidly shifted his expectations 
with  each  new  face,  as  if  the  accumulation  of  old  men  was 
heralding  the  imminent  arrival  of  Stillman  himself.  For  one 
brief instant Quinn thought, “So this is what detective work is 
like.” But other than that he thought nothing. He watched. Im-
mobile among the moving crowd, he stood there and watched. 
With about half the passengers now gone, Quinn had his ﬁrst 
sight of Stillman. The resemblance to the photograph seemed 
unmistakable. No, he had not gone bald, as Quinn had thought 
he would. His hair was white, and it lay on his head uncombed, 
sticking up here and there in tufts. He was tall, thin, without 
question past sixty, somewhat stooped. Inappropriately for the 
season, he wore a long brown overcoat that had gone to seed, 
and  he  shufﬂed  slightly  as  he  walked.  The  expression  on  his 
face  seemed  placid,  midway  between  a  daze  and  thoughtful-
ness. He did not look at the things around him, nor did they 
seem to interest him. He had one piece of luggage, a once beau-
tiful but now battered leather suitcase with a strap around it. 
Once  or  twice  as  he  walked  up  the  ramp  he  put  the  suitcase 
down and rested for a moment. He seemed to be moving with 
effort, a bit thrown by the crowd, uncertain whether to keep up 
with it or to let the others pass him by. 

Quinn  backed  off  several  feet,  positioning  himself  for  a 
quick move to the left or right, depending on what happened. 
At the same time, he wanted to be far enough away so that Still-
man would not feel he was being followed. 

As Stillman reached the threshold of the station, he put his 
bag down once again and paused. At that moment Quinn al-
lowed himself a glance to Stillman’s right, surveying the rest of 
the crowd to be doubly sure he had made no mistakes. What 
happened  then  deﬁed  explanation.  Directly  behind  Stillman, 
heaving into view just inches behind his right shoulder, another 
man stopped, took a lighter out of his pocket, and lit a ciga-
rette. His face was the exact twin of Stillman’s. For a second 
Quinn thought it was an illusion, a kind of aura thrown off by 
the  electromagnetic  currents  in  Stillman’s  body.  But  no,  this 
other  Stillman  moved,  breathed,  blinked  his  eyes;  his  actions 

56 

the new york trilogy 

were clearly independent of the ﬁrst Stillman. The second Still-
man had a prosperous air about him. He was dressed in an ex-
pensive  blue  suit;  his  shoes  were  shined;  his  white  hair  was 
combed; and in his eyes there was the shrewd look of a man of 
the world. He, too, was carrying a single bag: an elegant black 
suitcase, about the same size as the other Stillman’s. 

Quinn froze. There was nothing he could do now that would 
not  be  a  mistake.  Whatever  choice  he  made—and  he  had  to 
make  a  choice—would  be  arbitrary,  a  submission  to  chance. 
Uncertainty would haunt him to the end. At that moment, the 
two Stillmans started on their way again. The ﬁrst turned right, 
the second turned left. Quinn craved an amoeba’s body, want-
ing to cut himself in half and run off in two directions at once. 
“Do something,” he said to himself, “do something now, you 
idiot.” 

For no reason, he went to his left, in pursuit of the second 
Stillman. After nine or ten paces, he stopped. Something told 
him he would live to regret what he was doing. He was acting 
out of spite, spurred on to punish the second Stillman for con-
fusing him. He turned around and saw the ﬁrst Stillman shuf-
ﬂing off in the other direction. Surely this was his man. This 
shabby  creature,  so  broken  down  and  disconnected  from  his 
surroundings—surely this was the mad Stillman. Quinn breathed 
deeply, exhaled with a trembling chest, and breathed in again. 
There was no way to know: not this, not anything. He went af-
ter the ﬁrst Stillman, slowing his pace to match the old man’s, 
and followed him to the subway. 

It was nearly seven o’clock now, and the crowds had begun to 
thin out. Although Stillman seemed to be in a fog, he neverthe-
less knew where he was going. The professor went straight for 
the subway staircase, paid his money at the token booth below, 
and waited calmly on the platform for the Times Square Shut-
tle. Quinn began to lose his fear of being noticed. He had never 
seen anyone so lost in his own thoughts. Even if he stood di-
rectly in front of him, he doubted that Stillman would be able 
to see him. 

They travelled to the West Side on the shuttle, walked through 
the dank corridors of the 42nd Street station, and went down 

city of glass 

57 

another set of stairs to the IRT trains. Seven or eight minutes 
later they boarded the Broadway express, careened uptown for 
two long stops, and got off at 96th Street. Slowly making their 
way up the ﬁnal staircase, with several pauses as Stillman set 
down his bag and caught his breath, they surfaced on the cor-
ner  and  entered  the  indigo  evening.  Stillman  did  not  hesitate. 
Without  stopping  to  get  his  bearings,  he  began  walking  up 
Broadway along the east side of the street. For several minutes 
Quinn  toyed  with  the  irrational  conviction  that  Stillman  was 
walking toward his house on 107th Street. But before he could 
indulge himself in a full-blown panic, Stillman stopped at the 
corner of 99th Street, waited for the light to change from red to 
green, and crossed over to the other side of Broadway. Halfway 
up the block there was a small ﬂeabag for down-and-outs, the 
Hotel Harmony. Quinn had passed it many times before, and 
he  was  familiar  with  the  winos  and  vagabonds  who  hung 
around the place. It surprised him to see Stillman open the front 
door  and  enter  the  lobby.  Somehow  he  had  assumed  the  old 
man  would  have  found  more  comfortable  lodgings.  But  as 
Quinn stood outside the glass-paneled door and saw the profes-
sor walk up to the desk, write what was undoubtedly his name 
in the guest book, pick up his bag and disappear into the eleva-
tor, he realized that this was where Stillman meant to stay. 

Quinn waited outside for the next two hours, pacing up and 
down the block, thinking that Stillman would perhaps emerge 
to look for dinner in one of the local coffee shops. But the old 
man did not appear, and at last Quinn decided he must have 
gone to sleep. He put in a call to Virginia Stillman from a pay 
booth on the corner, gave her a  full report of what had hap-
pened, and then headed home to 107th Street. 

8 

The  next  morning,  and  for  many  mornings  to  follow,  Quinn 
posted himself on a bench in the middle of the trafﬁc island at 
Broadway  and  99th  Street.  He  would  arrive  early,  never  later 
than seven o’clock, and sit there with a take-out coffee, a but-
tered roll, and an open newspaper on his lap, watching the glass 
door of the hotel. By eight o’clock Stillman would come out, al-
ways  in  his  long  brown  overcoat,  carrying  a  large,  old-
fashioned carpet bag. For two weeks this routine did not vary. 
The old man would wander through the streets of the neighbor-
hood, advancing slowly, sometimes by the merest of increments, 
pausing, moving on again, pausing once more, as though each 
step had to be weighed and measured before it could take its 
place among the sum total of steps. Moving in this manner was 
difﬁcult for Quinn. He was used to walking briskly, and all this 
starting  and  stopping  and  shufﬂing  began  to  be  a  strain,  as 
though the rhythm of his body was being disrupted. He was the 
hare in pursuit of the tortoise, and again and again he had to re-
mind himself to hold back. 

What Stillman did on these walks remained something of a 
mystery to Quinn. He could, of course, see with his own eyes 
what happened, and all these things he dutifully recorded in his 
red  notebook.  But  the  meaning  of  these  things  continued  to 
elude him. Stillman never seemed to be going anywhere in par-
ticular, nor did he seem to know where he was. And yet, as if by 
conscious  design,  he  kept  to  a  narrowly  circumscribed  area, 
bounded on the north by 110th Street, on the south by 72nd 
Street, on the west by Riverside Park, and on the east by Ams-
terdam Avenue. No matter how haphazard his journeys seemed 

city of glass 

59 

to be—and each day his itinerary was different—Stillman never 
crossed these borders. Such precision bafﬂed Quinn, for in all 
other respects Stillman seemed to be aimless. 

As he walked, Stillman did not look up. His eyes were per-
manently ﬁxed on the pavement, as though he were searching 
for  something.  Indeed,  every  now  and  then  he  would  stoop 
down, pick some object off the ground, and examine it closely, 
turning it over and over in his hand. It made Quinn think of an 
archeologist inspecting a shard at some prehistoric ruin. Occa-
sionally, after poring over an object in this way, Stillman would 
toss  it  back  onto  the  sidewalk.  But  more  often  than  not  he 
would open his bag and lay the object gently inside it. Then, 
reaching into one of his coat pockets, he would remove a red 
notebook—similar to Quinn’s but smaller—and write in it with 
great concentration for a minute or two. Having completed this 
operation, he would return the notebook to his pocket, pick up 
his bag, and continue on his way. 

As far as Quinn could tell, the objects Stillman collected were 
valueless. They seemed to be no more than broken things, dis-
carded  things,  stray  bits  of  junk.  Over  the  days  that  passed, 
Quinn  noted  a  collapsible  umbrella  shorn  of  its  material,  the 
severed head of a rubber doll, a black glove, the bottom of a 
shattered  light  bulb,  several  pieces  of  printed  matter  (soggy 
magazines,  shredded  newspapers),  a  torn  photograph,  anony-
mous machinery parts, and sundry other clumps of ﬂotsam he 
could not identify. The fact that Stillman took this scavenging 
seriously intrigued Quinn, but he could do no more than ob-
serve, write down what he saw in the red notebook, hover stu-
pidly on the surface of things. At the same time, it pleased him 
to  know  that  Stillman  also  had  a  red  notebook,  as  if  this 
formed a secret link between them. Quinn suspected that Still-
man’s  red  notebook  contained  answers  to  the  questions  that 
had been accumulating in his mind, and he began to plot vari-
ous stratagems for stealing it from the old man. But the time 
had not yet come for such a step. 

Other  than  picking  up  objects  from  the  street,  Stillman 
seemed to do nothing. Every now and then he would stop some-
where for a meal. Occasionally he would bump into someone 

60 

the new york trilogy 

and mumble an apology. Once a car nearly ran him over as he 
was crossing the street. Stillman did not talk to anyone, did not 
go into any stores, did not smile. He seemed neither happy nor 
sad. Twice, when his scavenging haul had been unusually large, 
he  returned  to  the  hotel  in  the  middle  of  the  day  and  then 
reemerged  a  few  minutes  later  with  an  empty  bag.  On  most 
days he spent at least several hours in Riverside Park, walking 
methodically  along  the  macadam  footpaths  or  else  thrashing 
through the bushes with a stick. His quest for objects did not 
abate amidst the greenery. Stones, leaves, and twigs all found 
their way into his bag. Once, Quinn observed, he even stooped 
down for a dried dog turd, sniffed it carefully, and kept it. It 
was in the park, too, that Stillman rested. In the afternoon, of-
ten following his lunch, he would sit on a bench and gaze out 
across the Hudson. Once, on a particularly warm day, Quinn 
saw  him  sprawled  out  on  the  grass  asleep.  When  darkness 
came, Stillman would eat dinner at the Apollo Coffee Shop on 
97th Street and Broadway and then return to his hotel for the 
night.  Not  once  did  he  try  to  contact  his  son.  This  was  con-
ﬁrmed by Virginia Stillman, whom Quinn called each night af-
ter returning home. 

The  essential  thing  was  to  stay  involved.  Little  by  little, 
Quinn began to feel cut off from his original intentions, and he 
wondered now if he had not embarked on a meaningless proj-
ect. It was possible, of course, that Stillman was merely biding 
his time, lulling the world into lethargy before striking. But that 
would assume he was aware of being watched, and Quinn felt 
that was unlikely. He had done his job well so far, keeping at a 
discreet distance from the old man, blending into the trafﬁc of 
the street, neither calling attention to himself nor taking drastic 
measures  to  keep  himself  hidden.  On  the  other  hand,  it  was 
possible  that  Stillman  had  known  all  along  that  he  would  be 
watched—had  even  known  it  in  advance—and  therefore  had 
not  taken  the  trouble  to  discover  who  the  particular  watcher 
was. If being followed was a certainty, what did it matter? A 
watcher, once discovered, could always be replaced by another. 
This view of the situation comforted Quinn, and he decided 
to believe in it, even though he had no grounds for belief. Either 

city of glass 

61 

Stillman knew what he was doing or he didn’t. And if he didn’t, 
then  Quinn  was  going  nowhere,  was  wasting  his  time.  How 
much better it was to believe that all his steps were actually to 
some  purpose.  If  this  interpretation  required  knowledge  on 
Stillman’s part, then Quinn would accept this knowledge as an 
article of faith, at least for the time being. 

There remained the problem of how to occupy his thoughts 
as he followed the old man. Quinn was used to wandering. His 
excursions through the city had taught him to understand the 
connectedness  of  inner  and  outer.  Using  aimless  motion  as  a 
technique of reversal, on his best days he could bring the outside 
in  and  thus  usurp  the  sovereignty  of  inwardness.  By  ﬂooding 
himself with externals, by drowning himself out of himself, he 
had managed to exert some small degree of control over his ﬁts 
of  despair.  Wandering,  therefore,  was  a  kind  of  mindlessness. 
But following Stillman was not wandering. Stillman could wan-
der, he could stagger like a blindman from one spot to another, 
but  this  was  a  privilege  denied  to  Quinn.  For  he  was  obliged 
now to concentrate on what he was doing, even if it was next to 
nothing. Time and again his thoughts would begin to drift, and 
soon thereafter his steps would follow suit. This meant that he 
was constantly in danger of quickening his pace and crashing 
into Stillman from behind. To guard against this mishap he de-
vised several different methods of deceleration. The ﬁrst was to 
tell himself that he was no longer Daniel Quinn. He was Paul 
Auster now, and with each step he took he tried to ﬁt more com-
fortably into the strictures of that transformation. Auster was no 
more than a name to him, a husk without content. To be Auster 
meant being a man with no interior, a man with no thoughts. 
And if there were no thoughts available to him, if his own inner 
life had been made inaccessible, then there was no place for him 
to retreat to. As Auster he could not summon up any memories 
or fears, any dreams or joys, for all these things, as they per-
tained to Auster, were a blank to him. He consequently had to 
remain  solely  on  his  own  surface,  looking  outward  for  suste-
nance.  To  keep  his  eyes  ﬁxed  on  Stillman,  therefore,  was  not 
merely a distraction from the train of his thoughts, it was the 
only thought he allowed himself to have. 

62 

the new york trilogy 

For a day or two this tactic was mildly successful, but even-
tually even Auster began to droop from the monotony. Quinn 
realized that he needed something more to keep himself occu-
pied, some little task to accompany him as he went about his 
work. In the end, it was the red notebook that offered him sal-
vation. Instead of merely jotting down a few casual comments, 
as he had done the ﬁrst few days, he decided to record every de-
tail  about  Stillman  he  possibly  could.  Using  the  pen  he  had 
bought from the deaf mute, he set about his task with diligence. 
Not only did he take note of Stillman’s gestures, describe each 
object he selected or rejected for his bag, and keep an accurate 
timetable for all events, but he also set down with meticulous 
care  an  exact  itinerary  of  Stillman’s  divagations,  noting  each 
street he followed, each turn he made, and each pause that oc-
curred.  In  addition  to  keeping  him  busy,  the  red  notebook 
slowed Quinn’s pace. There was no danger now of overtaking 
Stillman.  The  problem,  rather,  was  to  keep  up  with  him,  to 
make sure he did not vanish. For walking and writing were not 
easily compatible activities. If for the past ﬁve years Quinn had 
spent his days doing the one and the other, now he was trying to 
do them both at the same time. In the beginning he made many 
mistakes. It was especially difﬁcult to write without looking at 
the page, and he often discovered that he had written two or 
even three lines on top of each other, producing a jumbled, il-
legible palimpsest. To look at the page, however, meant stop-
ping,  and  this  would  increase  his  chances  of  losing  Stillman. 
After a time, he decided that it was basically a question of posi-
tion. He experimented with the notebook in front of him at a 
forty-ﬁve-degree angle, but he found his left wrist soon tired. 
After that, he tried keeping the notebook directly in front of his 
face, eyes peering over it like some Kilroy come to life, but this 
proved impractical. Next, he tried propping the notebook on 
his right arm several inches above his elbow and supporting the 
back of the notebook with his left palm. But this cramped his 
writing hand and made writing on the bottom half of the page 
impossible. Finally, he decided to rest the notebook on his left 
hip, much as an artist holds his palette. This was an improve-
ment. The carrying no longer caused a strain, and his right hand 

city of glass 

63 

could hold the pen unencumbered by other duties. Although this 
method also had its drawbacks, it seemed to be the most com-
fortable  arrangement  over  the  long  haul.  For  Quinn  was  now 
able to divide his attention almost equally between Stillman and 
his writing, glancing now up at the one, now down at the other, 
seeing the thing and writing about it in the same ﬂuid gesture. 
With the deaf mute’s pen in his right hand and the red notebook 
on his left hip, Quinn went on following Stillman for another 
nine days. 

His nightly conversations with Virginia Stillman were brief. Al-
though the memory of the kiss was still sharp in Quinn’s mind, 
there  had  been  no  further  romantic  developments.  At  ﬁrst, 
Quinn had expected something to happen. After such a promis-
ing start, he felt certain that he would eventually ﬁnd Mrs. Still-
man in his arms. But his employer had rapidly retreated behind 
the mask of business and not once had referred to that isolated 
moment of passion. Perhaps Quinn had been misguided in his 
hopes, momentarily confusing himself with Max Work, a man 
who never failed to proﬁt from such situations. Or perhaps it 
was simply that Quinn was beginning to feel his loneliness more 
keenly. It had been a long time since a warm body had been be-
side him. For the fact was, he had started lusting after Virginia 
Stillman  the  moment  he  saw  her,  well  before  the  kiss  took 
place. Nor did her current lack of encouragement prevent him 
from  continuing  to  imagine  her  naked.  Lascivious  pictures 
marched  through  Quinn’s  head  each  night,  and  although  the 
chances of their becoming real seemed remote, they remained a 
pleasant diversion. Much later, long after it was too late, he re-
alized that deep inside he had been nurturing the chivalric hope 
of  solving  the  case  so  brilliantly,  of  removing  Peter  Stillman 
from  danger  so  swiftly  and  irrevocably,  that  he  would  win 
Mrs.  Stillman’s  desire  for  as  long  as  he  wanted  it.  That,  of 
course, was a mistake. But of all the mistakes Quinn made from 
beginning to end, it was no worse than any other. 

It was the thirteenth day since the case had begun. Quinn re-
turned  home  that  evening  out  of  sorts.  He  was  discouraged, 
ready to abandon ship. In spite of the games he had been playing 

64 

the new york trilogy 

with himself, in spite of the stories he had made up to keep him-
self going, there seemed to be no substance to the case. Stillman 
was a crazy old man who had forgotten his son. He could be fol-
lowed to the end of time, and still nothing would happen. Quinn 
picked up the phone and dialed the Stillman apartment. 

“I’m about ready to pack it in,” he said to Virginia Stillman. 

“From all I’ve seen, there’s no threat to Peter.” 

“That’s just what he wants us to think,” the woman answered. 

“You have no idea how clever he is. And how patient.” 

“He  might  be  patient,  but  I’m  not.  I  think  you’re  wasting 

your money. And I’m wasting my time.” 

“Are you sure he hasn’t seen you? That could make all the 

difference.” 

“I wouldn’t stake my life on it, but yes, I’m sure.” 
“What are you saying, then?” 
“I’m  saying  you  have  nothing  to  worry  about.  At  least  for 
now. If anything happens later, contact me. I’ll come running at 
the ﬁrst sign of trouble.” 

After a pause Virginia Stillman said, “You could be right.” 
Then, after another pause, “But just to reassure me a little, I 
wonder if we could compromise.” 

“It depends on what you have in mind.” 
“Just this. Give it a few more days. To make absolutely cer-

tain.” 

“On one condition,” said Quinn. “You’ve got to let me do it 
in my own way. No more restraints. I have to be free to talk to 
him, to question him, to get to the bottom of it once and for all.” 

“Wouldn’t that be risky?” 
“You don’t have to worry. I’m not going to tip our hand. He 

won’t even guess who I am or what I’m up to.” 

“How will you manage that?” 
“That’s my problem. I have all kinds of tricks up my sleeve. 

You just have to trust me.” 

“All right, I’ll go along. I don’t suppose it will hurt.” 
“Good. I’ll give it a few more days, and then we’ll see where 

we stand.” 

“Mr. Auster?” 
“Yes?” 

city of glass 

65 

“I’m terribly grateful. Peter has been in such good shape these 
past two weeks, and I know it’s because of you. He talks about 
you all the time. You’re like . . . I don’t know . . . a hero to  him.” 

“And how does Mrs. Stillman feel?” 
“She feels much the same way.” 
“That’s good to hear. Maybe someday she’ll allow me to feel 

grateful to her.” 

“Anything  is  possible,  Mr.  Auster.  You  should  remember 

that.” 

“I will. I’d be a fool not to.” 

Quinn made a light supper of scrambled eggs and toast, drank 
a bottle of beer, and then settled down at his desk with the red 
notebook. He had been writing in it now for many days, ﬁlling 
page after page with his erratic, jostled hand, but he had not yet 
had the heart to read over what he had written. Now that the 
end at last seemed in sight, he thought he might hazard a look. 
Much of it was hard going, especially in the early parts. And 
when he did manage to decipher the words, it did not seem to 
have  been  worth  the  trouble.  “Picks  up  pencil  in  middle  of 
block. Examines, hesitates, puts in bag. . . . Buys sandwich in 
deli. . . . Sits  on  bench  in  park  and  reads  through  red  note-
book.” These sentences seemed utterly worthless to him. 

It was all a question of method. If the object was to under-
stand Stillman, to get to know him well enough to be able to 
anticipate  what  he  would  do  next,  Quinn  had  failed.  He  had 
started with a limited set of facts: Stillman’s background and 
profession, the imprisonment of his son, his arrest and hospi-
talization, a book of bizarre scholarship written while he was 
supposedly still sane, and above all Virginia Stillman’s certainty 
that he would now try to harm his son. But the facts of the past 
seemed to have no bearing on the facts of the present. Quinn 
was  deeply  disillusioned.  He  had  always  imagined  that  the 
key to good detective work was a close observation of details. 
The more accurate the scrutiny, the more successful the results. 
The  implication  was  that  human  behavior  could  be  under-
stood, that beneath the inﬁnite facade of gestures, tics, and si-
lences,  there  was  ﬁnally  a  coherence,  an  order,  a  source  of 

66 

the new york trilogy 

motivation. But after struggling to take in all these surface ef-
fects, Quinn felt no closer to Stillman than when he ﬁrst started 
following him. He had lived Stillman’s life, walked at his pace, 
seen what he had seen, and the only thing he felt now was the 
man’s  impenetrability.  Instead  of  narrowing  the  distance  that 
lay  between  him  and  Stillman,  he  had  seen  the  old  man  slip 
away from him, even as he remained before his eyes. 

For no particular reason that he was aware of, Quinn turned 
to a clean page of the red notebook and sketched a little map of 
the area Stillman had wandered in. 

Then, looking carefully through his notes, he began to trace 
with  his  pen  the  movements  Stillman  had  made  on  a  single 
day—the ﬁrst day he had kept a full record of the old man’s 
wanderings. The result was as follows: 

Quinn was struck by the way Stillman had skirted around 
the edge of the territory, not once venturing into the center. 
The  diagram  looked  a  little  like  a  map  of  some  imaginary 
state in the Midwest. Except for the eleven blocks up Broad-
way at the start, and the series of curlicues that represented 
Stillman’s  meanderings  in  Riverside  Park,  the  picture  also 
resembled a rectangle. On the other hand, given the quadrant 
structure of New York streets, it might also have been a zero 
or the letter “O.” 

city of glass 

67 

68 

the new york trilogy 

Quinn  went  on  to  the  next  day  and  decided  to  see  what 

would happen. The results were not at all the same. 

This picture made Quinn think of a bird, a bird of prey per-
haps, with its wings spread, hovering aloft in the air. A mo-
ment later, this reading seemed far-fetched to him. The bird 
vanished, and in its stead there were only two abstract shapes, 
linked  by  the  tiny  bridge  Stillman  had  formed  by  walking 
west on 83rd Street. Quinn paused for a moment to ponder 
what  he  was  doing.  Was  he  scribbling  nonsense?  Was  he 
feeble-mindedly frittering away the evening, or was he trying 
to ﬁnd something? Either response, he realized, was unaccept-
able. If he was simply killing time, why had he chosen such a 
painstaking  way  to  do  it?  Was  he  so  muddled  that  he  no 
longer had the courage to think? On the other hand, if he was 
not merely diverting himself, what was he actually up to? It 
seemed  to  him  that  he  was  looking  for  a  sign.  He  was  ran-
sacking the chaos of Stillman’s movements for some glimmer 
of cogency. This implied only one thing: that he continued to 
disbelieve  the  arbitrariness  of  Stillman’s  actions.  He  wanted 
there to be a sense to them, no matter how obscure. This, in 
itself, was unacceptable. For it meant that Quinn was allowing 
himself to deny the facts, and this, as he well knew, was the 
worst thing a detective could do. 

Nevertheless, he decided to go on with it. It was not late, not 
even eleven o’clock yet, and the truth was that it could do no 

city of glass 

69 

harm. The results of the third map bore no resemblance to the 
other two. 

There  no  longer  seemed  to  be  a  question  about  what  was 
happening. If he discounted the squiggles from the park, Quinn 
felt certain that he was looking at the letter “E.” Assuming the 
ﬁrst  diagram  had  in  fact  represented  the  letter  “O,”  then  it 
seemed legitimate to assume that the bird wings of the second 
formed the letter “W.” Of course, the letters O-W-E spelled a 
word, but Quinn was not ready to draw any conclusions. He 
had  not  begun  his  inventory  until  the  ﬁfth  day  of  Stillman’s 
travels, and the identities of the ﬁrst four letters were anyone’s 
guess.  He  regretted  not  having  started  sooner,  knowing  now 
that the mystery of those four days was irretrievable. But per-
haps he would be able to make up for the past by plunging for-
ward.  By  coming  to  the  end,  perhaps  he  could  intuit  the 
beginning. 

The next day’s diagram seemed to yield a shape that resem-
bled the letter “R.” As with the others, it was complicated by 
numerous irregularities, approximations, and ornate embellish-
ments in the park. Still clinging to a semblance of objectivity, 
Quinn tried to look at it as if he had not been anticipating a let-
ter of the alphabet. He had to admit that nothing was sure: it 
could well have been meaningless. Perhaps he was looking for 
pictures in the clouds, as he had done as a small boy. And yet, 

70 

the new york trilogy 

the coincidence was too striking. If one map had resembled a 
letter, perhaps even two, he might have dismissed it as a quirk 
of chance. But four in a row was stretching it too far. 

The next day gave him a lopsided “O,” a doughnut crushed 
on  one  side  with  three  or  four  jagged  lines  sticking  out  the 
other. Then came a tidy “F,” with the customary rococo swirls 
to  the  side.  After  that  there  was  a  “B”  that  looked  like  two 
boxes haphazardly placed on top of one another, with packing 
excelsior brimming over the edges. Next there was a tottering 
“A” that somewhat resembled a ladder, with graded steps on 
each side. And ﬁnally there was a second “B”: precariously tilted 
on a perverse single point, like an upside-down pyramid. 

Quinn  then  copied  out  the  letters  in  order:  OWEROFBAB. 
After ﬁddling with them for a quarter of an hour, switching them 
around, pulling them apart, rearranging the sequence, he returned 
to the original order and wrote them out in the following man-
ner: OWER OF BAB. The solution seemed so grotesque that his 
nerve almost failed him. Making all due allowances for the fact 
that he had missed the ﬁrst four days and that Stillman had not 
yet ﬁnished, the answer seemed inescapable: THE TOWER OF 
BABEL. 

Quinn’s  thoughts  momentarily  ﬂew  off  to  the  concluding 
pages of A. Gordon Pym and to the discovery of the strange hi-
eroglyphs on the inner wall of the chasm—letters inscribed into 
the  earth  itself,  as  though  they  were  trying  to  say  something 
that could no longer be understood. But on second thought this 
did  not  seem  apt.  For  Stillman  had  not  left  his  message  any-
where. True, he had created the letters by the movement of his 
steps, but they had not been written down. It was like drawing 
a picture in the air with your ﬁnger. The image vanishes as you 
are making it. There is no result, no trace to mark what you 
have done. 

And yet, the pictures did exist—not in the streets where they 
had been drawn, but in Quinn’s red notebook. He wondered if 
Stillman had sat down each night in his room and plotted his 
course for the following day or whether he had improvised as 
he had gone along. It was impossible to know. He also won-
dered what purpose this writing served in Stillman’s mind. Was 

city of glass 

71 

it merely some sort of note to himself, or was it intended as a 
message to others? At the very least, Quinn concluded, it meant 
that Stillman had not forgotten Henry Dark. 

Quinn did not want to panic. In an effort to restrain himself, 
he tried to imagine things in the worst possible light. By seeing 
the  worst,  perhaps  it  would  not  be  as  bad  as  he  thought.  He 
broke  it  down  as  follows.  First:  Stillman  was  indeed  plotting 
something against Peter. Response: that had been the premise in 
any case. Second: Stillman had known he would be followed, 
had known his movements would be recorded, had known his 
message would be deciphered. Response: that did not change 
the essential fact—that Peter had to be protected. Third: Still-
man  was  far  more  dangerous  than  previously  imagined.  Re-
sponse: that did not mean he could get away with it. 

This  helped  somewhat.  But  the  letters  continued  to  horrify 
Quinn. The whole thing was so oblique, so ﬁendish in its cir-
cumlocutions, that he did not want to accept it. Then doubts 
came, as if on command, ﬁlling his head with mocking, sing-
song voices. He had imagined the whole thing. The letters were 
not letters at all. He had seen them only because he had wanted 
to see them. And even if the diagrams did form letters, it was 
only a ﬂuke. Stillman had nothing to do with it. It was all an 
accident, a hoax he had perpetrated on himself. 

He decided to go to bed, slept ﬁtfully, woke up, wrote in the 
red  notebook  for  half  an  hour,  went  back  to  bed.  His  last 
thought before he went to sleep was that he probably had two 
more days, since Stillman had not yet completed his message. 
The last two letters remained—the “E” and the “L.” Quinn’s 
mind dispersed. He arrived in a neverland of fragments, a place 
of wordless things and thingless words. Then, struggling through 
his torpor one last time, he told himself that El was the ancient 
Hebrew for God. 

In his dream, which he later forgot, he found himself in the 
town  dump  of  his  childhood,  sifting  through  a  mountain  of 
rubbish. 

9 

The ﬁrst meeting with Stillman took place in Riverside Park. It 
was  mid-afternoon,  a  Saturday  of  bicycles,  dog-walkers,  and 
children. Stillman was sitting alone on a bench, staring out at 
nothing in particular, the little red notebook on his lap. There 
was light everywhere, an immense light that seemed to radiate 
outward from each thing the eye caught hold of, and overhead, 
in the branches of the trees, a breeze continued to blow, shak-
ing the leaves with a passionate hissing, a rising and falling that 
breathed on as steadily as surf. 

Quinn had planned his moves carefully. Pretending not to no-
tice Stillman, he sat down on the bench beside him, folded his 
arms across his chest, and stared out in the same direction as 
the old man. Neither of them spoke. By his later calculations, 
Quinn estimated that this went on for ﬁfteen or twenty min-
utes. Then, without warning, he turned his head toward the old 
man and looked at him point-blank, stubbornly ﬁxing his eyes 
on the wrinkled proﬁle. Quinn concentrated all his strength in 
his eyes, as if they could begin to burn a hole in Stillman’s skull. 
This stare went on for ﬁve minutes. 

At last Stillman turned to him. In a surprisingly gentle tenor 
voice he said, “I’m sorry, but it won’t be possible for me to talk 
to you.” 

“I haven’t said anything,” said Quinn. 
“That’s true,” said Stillman. “But you must understand that 

I’m not in the habit of talking to strangers.” 

“I repeat,” said Quinn, “that I haven’t said anything.” 
“Yes, I heard you the ﬁrst time. But aren’t you interested in 

knowing why?” 

city of glass 

73 

“I’m afraid not.” 
“Well put. I can see you’re a man of sense.” 
Quinn shrugged, refusing to respond. His whole being now 

exuded indifference. 

Stillman  smiled  brightly  at  this,  leaned  toward  Quinn,  and 
said  in  a  conspiratorial  voice,  “I  think  we’re  going  to  get 
along.” 

“That remains to be seen,” said Quinn after a long pause. 
Stillman laughed—a brief, booming “haw”—and then con-
tinued. “It’s not that I dislike strangers per se. It’s just that I 
prefer not to speak to anyone who does not introduce himself. 
In order to begin, I must have a name.” 

“But  once  a  man  gives  you  his  name,  he’s  no  longer  a 

stranger.” 

“Exactly. That’s why I never talk to strangers.” 
Quinn had been prepared for this and knew how to answer. 
He was not going to let himself be caught. Since he was techni-
cally Paul Auster, that was the name he had to protect. Any-
thing else, even the truth, would be an invention, a mask to hide 
behind and keep him safe. 

“In that case,” he said, “I’m happy to oblige you. My name is 

Quinn.” 

“Ah,” said Stillman reﬂectively, nodding his head. “Quinn.” 
“Yes, Quinn. Q-U-I-N-N.” 
“I see. Yes, yes, I see. Quinn. Hmmm. Yes. Very interesting. 
Quinn. A most resonant word. Rhymes with twin, does it not?” 

“That’s right. Twin.” 
“And sin, too, if I’m not mistaken.” 
“You’re not.” 
“And also in—one n—or inn—two. Isn’t that so?” 
“Exactly.” 
“Hmmm.  Very  interesting.  I  see  many  possibilities  for  this 
word, this Quinn, this . . . quintessence . . . of quiddity. Quick, 
for example. And quill. And quack. And quirk. Hmmm. Rhymes 
with grin. Not to speak of kin. Hmmm. Very interesting. And 
win.  And  ﬁn.  And  din.  And  gin.  And  pin.  And  tin.  And  bin. 
Hmmm.  Even  rhymes  with  djinn.  Hmmm.  And  if  you  say  it 
right, with been. Hmmm. Yes, very interesting. I like your name 

74 

the new york trilogy 

enormously, Mr. Quinn. It ﬂies off in so many little directions 
at once.” 

“Yes, I’ve often noticed that myself.” 
“Most people don’t pay attention to such things. They think 
of words as stones, as great unmovable objects with no life, as 
monads that never change.” 

“Stones can change. They can be worn away by wind or wa-
ter. They can erode. They can be crushed. You can turn them 
into shards, or gravel, or dust.” 

“Exactly.  I  could  tell  you  were  a  man  of  sense  right  away, 
Mr. Quinn. If you only knew how many people have misunder-
stood me. My work has suffered because of it. Suffered terribly.” 

“Your work?” 
“Yes, my work. My projects, my investigations, my experi-

ments.” 
“Ah.” 
“Yes. But in spite of all the setbacks, I have never really been 
daunted. At present, for example, I am engaged in one of the 
most important things I have ever done. If all goes well, I be-
lieve I will hold the key to a series of major discoveries.” 

“The key?” 
“Yes, the key. A thing that opens locked doors.” 
“Ah.” 
“Of  course,  for  the  time  being  I’m  merely  collecting  data, 
gathering evidence so to speak. Then I will have to coordinate 
my ﬁndings. It’s highly demanding work. You wouldn’t believe 
how hard—especially for a man of my age.” 

“I can imagine.” 
“That’s right. There’s so much to do, and so little time to do 
it. Every morning I get up at dawn. I have to be outside in all 
kinds of weather, constantly on the move, forever on my feet, 
going from one place to the next. It wears me out, you can be 
sure of that.” 

“But it’s worth it.” 
“Anything for the truth. No sacriﬁce is too great.” 
“Indeed.” 
“You see, no one has understood what I have understood. I’m 

city of glass 

75 

the ﬁrst. I’m the only one. It puts a great burden of responsibil-
ity on me.” 

“The world on your shoulders.” 
“Yes, so to speak. The world, or what is left of it.” 
“I hadn’t realized it was as bad as that.” 
“It’s that bad. Maybe even worse.” 
“Ah.” 
“You see, the world is in fragments, sir. And it’s my job to 

put it back together again.” 

“You’ve taken on quite a bit.” 
“I  realize  that.  But  I’m  merely  looking  for  the  principle. 
That’s well within the scope of one man. If I can lay the foun-
dation, other hands can do the work of restoration itself. The 
important thing is the premise, the theoretical ﬁrst step. Unfor-
tunately, there is no one else who can do this.” 

“Have you made much progress?” 
“Enormous strides. In fact, I feel now that I’m on the verge of 

a signiﬁcant breakthrough.” 
“I’m reassured to hear it.” 
“It’s  a  comforting  thought,  yes.  And  it’s  all  because  of  my 

cleverness, the dazzling clarity of my mind.” 

“I don’t doubt it.” 
“You see, I’ve understood the need to limit myself. To work 

within a terrain small enough to make all results conclusive.” 

“The premise of the premise, so to speak.” 
“That’s it, exactly. The principle of the principle, the method of 
operation. You see, the world is in fragments, sir. Not only have 
we lost our sense of purpose, we have lost the language whereby 
we can speak of it. These are no doubt spiritual matters, but they 
have their analogue in the material world. My brilliant stroke has 
been to conﬁne myself to physical things, to the immediate and 
tangible. My motives are lofty, but my work now takes place in 
the  realm  of  the  everyday.  That’s  why  I’m  so  often  misunder-
stood. But no matter. I’ve learned to shrug these things off.” 

“An admirable response.” 
“The  only  response.  The  only  one  worthy  of  a  man  of 
my  stature.  You  see,  I  am  in  the  process  of  inventing  a  new 

76 

the new york trilogy 

language. With work such as that to do, I can’t be bothered by 
the stupidity of others. In any case, it’s all part of the disease 
I’m trying to cure.” 

“A new language?” 
“Yes. A language that will at last say what we have to say. 
For  our  words  no  longer  correspond  to  the  world.  When 
things were whole, we felt conﬁdent that our words could ex-
press them. But little by little these things have broken apart, 
shattered,  collapsed  into  chaos.  And  yet  our  words  have  re-
mained the same. They have not adapted themselves to the new 
reality. Hence, every time we try to speak of what we see, we 
speak falsely, distorting the very thing we are trying to repre-
sent. It’s made a mess of everything. But words, as you yourself 
understand,  are  capable  of  change.  The  problem  is  how  to 
demonstrate  this.  That  is  why  I  now  work  with  the  simplest 
means possible—so simple that even a child can grasp what I 
am saying. Consider a word that refers to a thing—‘umbrella,’ 
for example. When I say the word ‘umbrella,’ you see the object 
in  your  mind.  You  see  a  kind  of  stick,  with  collapsible  metal 
spokes on top that form an armature for a waterproof material 
which, when opened, will protect you from the rain. This last 
detail is important. Not only is an umbrella a thing, it is a thing 
that performs a function—in other words, expresses the will of 
man. When you stop to think of it, every object is similar to the 
umbrella, in that it serves a function. A pencil is for writing, a 
shoe is for wearing, a car is for driving. Now, my question is 
this. What happens when a thing no longer performs its func-
tion? Is it still the thing, or has it become something else? When 
you rip the cloth off the umbrella, is the umbrella still an um-
brella? You open the spokes, put them over your head, walk out 
into the rain, and you get drenched. Is it possible to go on call-
ing this object an umbrella? In general, people do. At the very 
limit, they will say the umbrella is broken. To me this is a seri-
ous  error,  the  source  of  all  our  troubles.  Because  it  can  no 
longer perform its function, the umbrella has ceased to be an 
umbrella.  It  might  resemble  an  umbrella,  it  might  once  have 
been an umbrella, but now it has changed into something else. 
The word, however, has remained the same. Therefore, it can 

city of glass 

77 

no longer express the thing. It is imprecise; it is false; it hides 
the thing it is supposed to reveal. And if we cannot even name a 
common, everyday object that we hold in our hands, how can 
we expect to speak of the things that truly concern us? Unless 
we can begin to embody the notion of change in the words we 
use, we will continue to be lost.” 

“And your work?” 
“My work is very simple. I have come to New York because 
it is the most forlorn of places, the most abject. The brokenness 
is everywhere, the disarray is universal. You have only to open 
your eyes to see it. The broken people, the broken things, the 
broken thoughts. The whole city is a junk heap. It suits my pur-
pose admirably. I ﬁnd the streets an endless source of material, 
an inexhaustible storehouse of shattered things. Each day I go 
out with my bag and collect objects that seem worthy of inves-
tigation. My samples now number in the hundreds—from the 
chipped to the smashed, from the dented to the squashed, from 
the pulverized to the putrid.” 

“What do you do with these things?” 
“I give them names.” 
“Names?” 
“I invent new words that will correspond to the things.” 
“Ah. Now I see. But how do you decide? How do you know 

if you’ve found the right word?” 

“I never make a mistake. It’s a function of my genius.” 
“Could you give me an example?” 
“Of one of my words?” 
“Yes.” 
“I’m sorry, but that won’t be possible. It’s my secret, you un-
derstand. Once I’ve published my book, you and the rest of the 
world will know. But for now I have to keep it to myself.” 

“Classiﬁed information.” 
“That’s right. Top secret.” 
“I’m sorry.” 
“You shouldn’t be too disappointed. It won’t be long now be-
fore I’ve put my ﬁndings in order. Then great things will begin 
to happen. It will be the most important event in the history of 
mankind.” 

78 

the new york trilogy 

The second meeting took place a little past nine o’clock the fol-
lowing morning. It was Sunday, and Stillman had emerged from 
the hotel an hour later than usual. He walked the two blocks to 
his  customary  breakfast  place,  the  Mayﬂower  Cafe,  and  sat 
down  in  a  corner  booth  at  the  back.  Quinn,  growing  bolder 
now, followed the old man into the restaurant and sat down in 
the  same  booth,  directly  opposite  him.  For  a  minute  or  two 
Stillman seemed not to notice his presence. Then, looking up 
from his menu, he studied Quinn’s face in an abstract sort of 
way. He apparently did not recognize him from the day before. 

“Do I know you?” he asked. 
“I don’t think so,” said Quinn. “My name is Henry Dark.” 
“Ah,” Stillman nodded. “A man who begins with the essen-

tial. I like that.” 

“I’m not one to beat around the bush,” said Quinn. 
“The bush? What bush might that be?” 
“The burning bush, of course.” 
“Ah, yes. The burning bush. Of course.” Stillman looked at 
Quinn’s face—a little more carefully now, but also with what 
seemed  to  be  a  certain  confusion.  “I’m  sorry,”  he  went  on, 
“but I don’t remember your name. I recall that you gave it to 
me not long ago, but now it seems to be gone.” 

“Henry Dark,” said Quinn. 
“So it is. Yes, now it comes back to me. Henry Dark.” Still-
man paused for a long moment and then shook his head. “Un-
fortunately, that’s not possible, sir.” 

“Why not?” 
“Because there is no Henry Dark.” 
“Well, perhaps I’m another Henry Dark. As opposed to the 

one who doesn’t exist.” 

“Hmmm.  Yes,  I  see  your  point.  It  is  true  that  two  people 
sometimes  have  the  same  name.  It’s  quite  possible  that  your 
name is Henry Dark. But you’re not the Henry Dark.” 

“Is he a friend of yours?” 
Stillman laughed, as if at a good joke. “Not exactly,” he said. 
“You  see,  there  never  was  any  such  person  as  Henry  Dark.  I 
made him up. He’s an invention.” 

city of glass 

79 

“No,” said Quinn, with feigned disbelief. 
“Yes. He’s a character in a book I once wrote. A ﬁgment.” 
“I ﬁnd that hard to accept.” 
“So did everyone else. I fooled them all.” 
“Amazing. Why in the world did you do it?” 
“I needed him, you see. I had certain ideas at the time that 
were too dangerous and controversial. So I pretended they had 
come from someone else. It was a way of protecting myself.” 

“How did you decide on the name Henry Dark?” 
“It’s a good name, don’t you think? I like it very much. Full 
of mystery, and at the same time quite proper. It suited my pur-
pose well. And besides, it had a secret meaning.” 

“The allusion to darkness?” 
“No, no. Nothing so obvious. It was the initials, H.D. That 

was very important.” 

“How so?” 
“Don’t you want to guess?” 
“I don’t think so.” 
“Oh, do try. Make three guesses. If you don’t get it, then I’ll 

tell you.” 

Quinn paused for a moment, trying to give it his best effort. 
“H.D.,”  he  said.  “For  Henry  David?  As  in  Henry  David 
Thoreau.” 

“Not even close.” 
“How  about  H.D.  pure  and  simple?  For  the  poet  Hilda 

Doolittle.” 

“Worse than the ﬁrst one.” 
“All  right,  one  more  guess.  H.D.  H. . . . and  D. . . . Just  a 
moment.  . . . How  about. . . . Just  a  moment. . . . Ah.  . . . Yes,  
here we are. H for the weeping philosopher, Heraclitus . . . and  
D  for  the  laughing  philosopher,  Democritus.  Heraclitus  and 
Democritus . . . the  two poles of the dialectic.” 

“A very clever answer.” 
“Am I right?” 
“No, of course not. But a clever answer just the same.” 
“You can’t say I didn’t try.” 
“No, I can’t. That’s why I’m going to reward you with the 

correct answer. Because you tried. Are you ready?” 

80 

the new york trilogy 

“Ready.” 
“The initials H.D. in the name Henry Dark refer to Humpty 

Dumpty.” 
“Who?” 
“Humpty Dumpty. You know who I mean. The egg.” 
“As in ‘Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall’?” 
“Exactly.” 
“I don’t understand.” 
“Humpty  Dumpty:  the  purest  embodiment  of  the  human 
condition. Listen carefully, sir. What is an egg? It is that which 
has  not  yet  been  born.  A  paradox,  is  it  not?  For  how  can 
Humpty Dumpty be alive if he has not been born? And yet, he 
is  alive—make  no  mistake.  We  know  that  because  he  can 
speak. More than that, he is a philosopher of language. ‘When 
I use a word, Humpty Dumpty said, in rather a scornful tone, it 
means  just  what  I  choose  it  to  mean—neither  more  nor  less. 
The question is, said Alice, whether you can make words mean 
so many different things. The question is, said Humpty Dumpty, 
which is to be master—that’s all.’ ” 

“Lewis Carroll.” 
“Through the Looking Glass, chapter six.” 
“Interesting.” 
“It’s more than interesting, sir. It’s crucial. Listen carefully, 
and perhaps you will learn something. In his little speech to Al-
ice, Humpty Dumpty sketches the future of human hopes and 
gives the clue to our salvation: to become masters of the words 
we speak, to make language answer our needs. Humpty Dumpty 
was a prophet, a man who spoke truths the world was not ready 
for.” 

“A man?” 
“Excuse me. A slip of the tongue. I mean an egg. But the slip 
is  instructive  and  helps  to  prove  my  point.  For  all  men  are 
eggs, in a manner of speaking. We exist, but we have not yet 
achieved the form that is our destiny. We are pure potential, an 
example of the not-yet-arrived. For man is a fallen creature— 
we know that from Genesis. Humpty Dumpty is also a fallen 
creature. He falls from his wall, and no one can put him back 
together again—neither the king, nor his horses, nor his men. 

city of glass 

81 

But that is what we must all now strive to do. It is our duty as 
human beings: to put the egg back together again. For each of 
us,  sir,  is  Humpty  Dumpty.  And  to  help  him  is  to  help  our-
selves.” 

“A convincing argument.” 
“It’s impossible to ﬁnd a ﬂaw in it.” 
“No cracks in the egg.” 
“Exactly.” 
“And, at the same time, the origin of Henry Dark.” 
“Yes. But there is more to it than that. Another egg, in fact.” 
“There’s more than one?” 
“Good heavens, yes. There are millions of them. But the one 
I  have  in  mind  is  particularly  famous.  It’s  probably  the  most 
celebrated egg of all.” 

“You’re beginning to lose me.” 
“I’m speaking of Columbus’s egg.” 
“Ah, yes. Of course.” 
“You know the story?” 
“Everyone does.” 
“It’s  charming,  is  it  not?  When  faced  with  the  problem  of 
how to stand an egg on its end, he merely tapped slightly on the 
bottom, cracking the shell just enough to create a certain ﬂat-
ness that would support the egg when he removed his hand.” 

“It worked.” 
“Of  course  it  worked.  Columbus  was  a  genius.  He  sought 
paradise and discovered the New World. It is still not too late 
for it to become paradise.” 

“Indeed.” 
“I admit that things have not worked out too well yet. But 
there is still hope. Americans have never lost their desire to dis-
cover new worlds. Do you remember what happened in 1969?” 

“I remember many things. What do you have in mind?” 
“Men  walked  on  the  moon.  Think  of  that,  dear  sir.  Men 

walked on the moon!” 

“Yes, I remember. According to the President, it was the great-

est event since creation.” 

“He was right. The only intelligent thing that man ever said. 

And what do you suppose the moon looks like?” 

82 

the new york trilogy 

“I have no idea.” 
“Come, come, think again.” 
“Oh yes. Now I see what you mean.” 
“Granted, the resemblance is not perfect. But it is true that in 
certain phases, especially on a clear night, the moon does look 
very much like an egg.” 

“Yes. Very much like.” 
At that moment, a waitress appeared with Stillman’s break-
fast and set it on the table before him. The old man eyed the 
food with relish. Decorously lifting a knife with his right hand, 
he cracked the shell of his soft-boiled egg and said, “As you can 
see, sir, I leave no stone unturned.” 

The third meeting took place later that same day. The afternoon 
was well advanced: the light like gauze on the bricks and leaves, 
the  shadows  lengthening.  Once  again,  Stillman  retreated  to 
Riverside Park, this time to the edge of it, coming to rest on a 
knobby outcrop at 84th Street known as Mount Tom. On this 
same spot, in the summers of 1843 and 1844, Edgar Allan Poe 
had spent many long hours gazing out at the Hudson. Quinn 
knew  this  because  he  had  made  it  his  business  to  know  such 
things. As it turned out, he had often sat there himself. 

He felt little fear now about doing what he had to do. He cir-
cled the rock two or three times, but failed to get Stillman’s at-
tention. Then he sat down next to the old man and said hello. 
Incredibly, Stillman did not recognize him. This was the third 
time  Quinn  had  presented  himself,  and  each  time  it  was  as 
though  Quinn  had  been  someone  else.  He  could  not  decide 
whether this was a good sign or bad. If Stillman was pretend-
ing, he was an actor like no other in the world. For each time 
Quinn had appeared, he had done it by surprise. And yet Still-
man had not even blinked. On the other hand, if Stillman really 
did not recognize him, what did this mean? Was it possible for 
anyone to be so impervious to the things he saw? 

The old man asked him who he was. 
“My name is Peter Stillman,” said Quinn. 
“That’s my name,” answered Stillman. “I’m Peter Stillman.” 

city of glass 

83 

“I’m the other Peter Stillman,” said Quinn. 
“Oh. You mean my son. Yes, that’s possible. You look just 
like him. Of course, Peter is blond and you are dark. Not Henry 
Dark,  but  dark  of  hair.  But  people  change,  don’t  they?  One 
minute we’re one thing, and then another another.” 

“Exactly.” 
“I’ve  often  wondered  about  you,  Peter.  Many  times  I’ve 

thought to myself, ‘I wonder how Peter is getting along.’ ” 

“I’m much better now, thank you.” 
“I’m glad to hear it. Someone once told me you had died. It 

made me very sad.” 

“No, I’ve made a complete recovery.” 
“I can see that. Fit as a ﬁddle. And you speak so well, too.” 
“All words are available to me now. Even the ones most peo-

ple have trouble with. I can say them all.” 

“I’m proud of you, Peter.” 
“I owe it all to you.” 
“Children are a great blessing. I’ve always said that. An in-

comparable blessing.” 

“I’m sure of it.” 
“As for me, I have my good days and my bad days. When the 
bad days come, I think of the ones that were good. Memory is 
a great blessing, Peter. The next best thing to death.” 

“Without a doubt.” 
“Of course, we must live in the present, too. For example, I 
am currently in New York. Tomorrow, I could be somewhere 
else. I travel a great deal, you see. Here today, gone tomorrow. 
It’s part of my work.” 

“It must be stimulating.” 
“Yes, I’m very stimulated. My mind never stops.” 
“That’s good to hear.” 
“The years weigh heavily, it’s true. But we have so much to 
be thankful for. Time makes us grow old, but it also gives us 
the day and the night. And when we die, there is always some-
one to take our place.” 

“We all grow old.” 
“When you’re old, perhaps you’ll have a son to comfort you.” 

84 

the new york trilogy 

“I would like that.” 
“Then you would be as fortunate as I have been. Remember, 

Peter, children are a great blessing.” 

“I won’t forget.” 
“And remember, too, that you shouldn’t put all your eggs in 
one basket. Conversely, don’t count your chickens before they 
hatch.” 

“No. I try to take things as they come.” 
“Last of all, never say a thing you know in your heart is not 

true.” 

“I won’t.” 
“Lying is a bad thing. It makes you sorry you were ever born. 
And not to have been born is a curse. You are condemned to 
live outside time. And when you live outside time, there is no 
day and night. You don’t even get a chance to die.” 

“I understand.” 
“A lie can never be undone. Even the truth is not enough. I am 
a father, and I know about these things. Remember what hap-
pened to the father of our country. He chopped down the cherry 
tree, and then he said to his father, ‘I cannot tell a lie.’ Soon there-
after, he threw the coin across the river. These two stories are 
crucial events in American history. George Washington chopped 
down the tree, and then he threw away the money. Do you un-
derstand?  He  was  telling  us  an  essential  truth.  Namely,  that 
money  doesn’t  grow  on  trees.  This  is  what  made  our  country 
great, Peter. Now George Washington’s picture is on every dollar 
bill. There is an important lesson to be learned from all this.” 

“I agree with you.” 
“Of course, it’s unfortunate that the tree was cut down. That 
tree was the Tree of Life, and it would have made us immune to 
death. Now we welcome death with open arms, especially when 
we  are  old.  But  the  father  of  our  country  knew  his  duty.  He 
could not do otherwise. That is the meaning of the phrase ‘Life is 
a bowl of cherries.’ If the tree had remained standing, we would 
have had eternal life.” 

“Yes, I see what you mean.” 
“I have many such ideas in my head. My mind never stops. You 

were always a clever boy, Peter, and I’m glad you understand.” 

city of glass 

85 

“I can follow you perfectly.” 
“A  father  must  always  teach  his  son  the  lessons  he  has 
learned. In that way knowledge is passed down from generation 
to generation, and we grow wise.” 

“I won’t forget what you’ve told me.” 
“I’ll be able to die happily now, Peter.” 
“I’m glad.” 
“But you musn’t forget anything.” 
“I won’t, father. I promise.” 

The next morning, Quinn was in front of the hotel at his usual 
time. The weather had ﬁnally changed. After two weeks of re-
splendent  skies,  a  drizzle  now  fell  on  New  York,  and  the 
streets were ﬁlled with the sound of wet, moving tires. For an 
hour Quinn sat on the bench, protecting himself with a black 
umbrella, thinking Stillman would appear at any moment. He 
worked his way through his roll and coffee, read the account 
of the Mets’ Sunday loss, and still there was no sign of the old 
man. Patience, he said to himself, and began to tackle the rest 
of the paper. Forty minutes passed. He reached the ﬁnancial 
section and was about to read an analysis of a corporate merger 
when  the  rain  suddenly  intensiﬁed.  Reluctantly,  he  got  up 
from his bench and removed himself to a doorway across the 
street from the hotel. He stood there in his clammy shoes for 
an hour and a half. Was Stillman sick? he wondered. Quinn 
tried  to  imagine  him  lying  in  his  bed,  sweating  out  a  fever. 
Perhaps the old man had died during the night and his body 
had  not  yet  been  discovered.  Such  things  happened,  he  told 
himself. 

Today was to have been the crucial day, and Quinn had made 
elaborate  and  meticulous  plans  for  it.  Now  his  calculations 
were  for  naught.  It  disturbed  him  that  he  had  not  taken  this 
contingency into account. 

Still, he hesitated. He stood there under his umbrella, watch-
ing the rain slide off it in small, ﬁne drops. By eleven o’clock he 
had  begun  to  formulate  a  decision.  Half  an  hour  later  he 
crossed the street, walked forty paces down the block, and en-
tered Stillman’s hotel. The place stank of cockroach repellant 

86 

the new york trilogy 

and dead cigarettes. A few of the tenants, with nowhere to go in 
the rain, were sitting in the lobby, sprawled out on orange plas-
tic chairs. The place seemed blank, a hell of stale thoughts. 

A large black man sat behind the front desk with his sleeves 
rolled  up.  One  elbow  was  on  the  counter,  and  his  head  was 
propped in his open hand. With his other hand he turned the 
pages of a tabloid newspaper, barely pausing to read the words. 
He looked bored enough to have been there all his life. 

“I’d like to leave a message for one of your guests,” Quinn 

said. 

The man looked up at him slowly, as if wishing him to disap-

pear. 

“I’d like to leave a message for one of your guests,” Quinn 

said again. 

“No guests here,” said the man. “We call them residents.” 
“For one of your residents, then. I’d like to leave a message.” 
“And just who might that be, bub?” 
“Stillman. Peter Stillman.” 
The man pretended to think for a moment, then shook his 

head. “Nope. Can’t recall anyone by that name.” 

“Don’t you have a register?” 
“Yeah, we’ve got a book. But it’s in the safe.” 
“The safe? What are you talking about?” 
“I’m talking about the book, bub. The boss likes to keep it 

locked up in the safe.” 

“I don’t suppose you know the combination?” 
“Sorry. The boss is the only one.” 
Quinn sighed, reached into his pocket, and pulled out a ﬁve-
dollar bill. He slapped it on the counter and kept his hand on 
top of it. 

“I don’t suppose you happen to have a copy of the book, do 

you?” he asked. 

“Maybe,” said the man. “I’ll have to look in my ofﬁce.” 
The man lifted up the newspaper, which was lying open on 

the counter. Under it was the register. 

“A  lucky  break,”  said  Quinn,  releasing  his  hand  from  the 

money. 

“Yeah; I guess today’s my day,” answered the man, sliding 

city of glass 

87 

the bill along the surface of the counter, whisking it over the 
edge,  and  putting  it  in  his  pocket.  “What  did  you  say  your 
friend’s name was again?” 

“Stillman. An old man with white hair.” 
“The gent in the overcoat?” 
“That’s right.” 
“We call him the Professor.” 
“That’s the man. Do you have a room number? He checked 

in about two weeks ago.” 

The clerk opened the register, turned the pages, and ran his 
ﬁnger down the column of names and numbers. “Stillman,” he 
said. “Room 303. He’s not here anymore.” 

“What?” 
“He checked out.” 
“What are you talking about?” 
“Listen, bub, I’m only telling you what it says here. Stillman 

checked out last night. He’s gone.” 

“That’s the craziest thing I ever heard.” 
“I  don’t  care  what  it  is.  It’s  all  down  here  in  black  and 

white.” 

“Did he give a forwarding address?” 
“Are you kidding?” 
“What time did he leave?” 
“Have to ask Louie, the night man. He comes on at eight.” 
“Can I see the room?” 
“Sorry. I rented it myself this morning. The guy’s up there 

asleep.” 

“What did he look like?” 
“For ﬁve bucks you’ve got a lot of questions.” 
“Forget  it,”  said  Quinn,  waving  his  hand  desperately.  “It 

doesn’t matter.” 

He  walked  back  to  his  apartment  in  a  downpour,  getting 
drenched  in  spite  of  his  umbrella.  So  much  for  functions,  he 
said to himself. So much for the meaning of words. He threw 
the umbrella onto the ﬂoor of his living room in disgust. Then 
he took off his jacket and ﬂung it against the wall. Water splat-
tered everywhere. 

88 

the new york trilogy 

He called Virginia Stillman, too embarrassed to think of do-
ing anything else. At the moment she answered, he nearly hung 
up the phone. 

“I lost him,” he said. 
“Are you sure?” 
“He checked out of his room last night. I don’t know where 

he is.” 

“I’m scared, Paul.” 
“Have you heard from him?” 
“I don’t know. I think so, but I’m not sure.” 
“What does that mean?” 
“Peter answered the phone this morning while I was taking 
my bath. He won’t tell me who it was. He went into his room, 
closed the shades, and refuses to speak.” 

“But he’s done that before.” 
“Yes. That’s why I’m not sure. But it hasn’t happened in a 

long time.” 

“It sounds bad.” 
“That’s what I’m afraid of.” 
“Don’t worry. I have a few ideas. I’ll get to work on them 

right away.” 

“How will I reach you?” 
“I’ll call you every two hours, no matter where I am.” 
“Do you promise?” 
“Yes, I promise.” 
“I’m so scared, I can’t stand it.” 
“It’s all my fault. I made a stupid mistake and I’m sorry.” 
“No, I don’t blame you. No one can watch a person twenty-
four  hours  a  day.  It’s  impossible.  You’d  have  to  be  inside  his 
skin.” 

“That’s just the trouble. I thought I was.” 
“It’s not too late now, is it?” 
“No. There’s still plenty of time. I don’t want you to worry.” 
“I’ll try not to.” 
“Good. I’ll be in touch.” 
“Every two hours?” 
“Every two hours.” 

city of glass 

89 

He had ﬁnessed the conversation rather nicely. In spite of every-
thing,  he  had  managed  to  keep  Virginia  Stillman  calm.  He 
found it hard to believe, but she still seemed to trust him. Not 
that it would be of any help. For the fact was, he had lied to her. 
He did not have several ideas. He did not have even one. 

10 

Stillman was gone now. The old man had become part of the 
city. He was a speck, a punctuation mark, a brick in an endless 
wall of bricks. Quinn could walk through the streets every day 
for the rest of his life, and still he would not ﬁnd him. Everything 
had been reduced to chance, a nightmare of numbers and prob-
abilities. There were no clues, no leads, no moves to be made. 

Quinn backtracked in his mind to the beginning of the case. 
His job had been to protect Peter, not to follow Stillman. That 
had  simply  been  a  method,  a  way  of  trying  to  predict  what 
would  happen.  By  watching  Stillman,  the  theory  was  that  he 
would learn what his intentions were toward Peter. He had fol-
lowed the old man for two weeks. What, then, could he con-
clude? Not much. Stillman’s behavior had been too obscure to 
give any hints. 

There  were,  of  course,  certain  extreme  measures  that  they 
could take. He could suggest to Virginia Stillman that she get 
an  unlisted  telephone  number.  That  would  eliminate  the  dis-
turbing calls, at least temporarily. If that failed, she and Peter 
could move. They could leave the neighborhood, perhaps leave 
the city altogether. At the very worst, they could take on new 
identities, live under different names. 

This last thought reminded him of something important. Un-
til now, he realized, he had never seriously questioned the cir-
cumstances of his hiring. Things had happened too quickly, and 
he had taken it for granted that he could ﬁll in for Paul Auster. 
Once  he  had  taken  the  leap  into  that  name,  he  had  stopped 
thinking about Auster himself. If this man was as good a detec-
tive as the Stillmans thought he was, perhaps he would be able 

city of glass 

91 

to help with the case. Quinn would make a clean breast of it, 
Auster  would  forgive  him,  and  together  they  would  work  to 
save Peter Stillman. 

He looked through the yellow pages for the Auster Detective 
Agency. There was no listing. In the white pages, however, he 
found the name. There was one Paul Auster in Manhattan, liv-
ing  on  Riverside  Drive—not  far  from  Quinn’s  own  house. 
There was no mention of a detective agency, but that did not 
necessarily mean anything. It could be that Auster had so much 
work he didn’t need to advertise. Quinn picked up the phone 
and was about to dial when he thought better of it. This was too 
important  a  conversation  to  leave  to  the  phone.  He  did  not 
want to run the risk of being brushed off. Since Auster did not 
have an ofﬁce, that meant he worked at home. Quinn would go 
there and talk to him face to face. 

The  rain  had  stopped  now,  and  although  the  sky  was  still 
gray, far to the west Quinn could see a tiny shaft of light seep-
ing through the clouds. As he walked up Riverside Drive, he be-
came  aware  of  the  fact  that  he  was  no  longer  following 
Stillman. It felt as though he had lost half of himself. For two 
weeks he had been tied by an invisible thread to the old man. 
Whatever  Stillman  had  done,  he  had  done;  wherever  Stillman 
had gone, he had gone. His body was not accustomed to this 
new freedom, and for the ﬁrst few blocks he walked at the old 
shufﬂing  pace.  The  spell  was  over,  and  yet  his  body  did  not 
know it. 

Auster’s building was in the middle of the long block that ran 
between 116th and 119th Streets, just south of Riverside Church 
and Grant’s Tomb. It was a well-kept place, with polished door-
knobs and clean glass, and it had an air of bourgeois sobriety 
that appealed to Quinn at that moment. Auster’s apartment was 
on the eleventh ﬂoor, and Quinn rang the buzzer, expecting to 
hear a voice speak to him through the intercom. But the door 
buzzer answered him without any conversation. Quinn pushed 
the door open, walked through the lobby, and rode the elevator 
to the eleventh ﬂoor. 

It was a man who opened the apartment door. He was a tall 
dark  fellow  in  his  mid-thirties,  with  rumpled  clothes  and  a 

92 

the new york trilogy 

two-day beard. In his right hand, ﬁxed between his thumb and 
ﬁrst two ﬁngers, he held an uncapped fountain pen, still poised 
in  a  writing  position.  The  man  seemed  surprised  to  ﬁnd  a 
stranger standing before him. 
“Yes?” he asked tentatively. 
Quinn spoke in the politest tone he could muster. “Were you 

expecting someone else?” 

“My wife, as a matter of fact. That’s why I rang the buzzer 

without asking who it was.” 

“I’m  sorry  to  disturb  you,”  Quinn  apologized.  “But  I’m 

looking for Paul Auster.” 

“I’m Paul Auster,” said the man. 
“I wonder if I could talk to you. It’s quite important.” 
“You’ll have to tell me what it’s about ﬁrst.” 
“I hardly know myself.” Quinn gave Auster an earnest look. 

“It’s complicated, I’m afraid. Very complicated.” 

“Do you have a name?” 
“I’m sorry. Of course I do. Quinn.” 
“Quinn what?” 
“Daniel Quinn.” 
The  name  seemed  to  suggest  something  to  Auster,  and  he 
paused for a moment abstractedly, as if searching through his 
memory. “Quinn,” he muttered to himself. “I know that name 
from  somewhere.”  He  went  silent  again,  straining  harder  to 
dredge up the answer. “You aren’t a poet, are you?” 

“I used to be,” said Quinn. “But I haven’t written poems for 

a long time now.” 

“You did a book several years ago, didn’t you? I think the ti-
tle was Unﬁnished Business. A little book with a blue cover.” 

“Yes. That was me.” 
“I  liked  it  very  much.  I  kept  hoping  to  see  more  of  your 

work. In fact, I even wondered what had happened to you.” 

“I’m still here. Sort of.” 
Auster opened the door wider and gestured for Quinn to en-
ter the apartment. It was a pleasant enough place inside: oddly 
shaped,  with  several  long  corridors,  books  cluttered  every-
where, pictures on the walls by artists Quinn did not know, and 
a few children’s toys scattered on the ﬂoor—a red truck, a brown 

city of glass 

93 

bear, a green space monster. Auster led him to the living room, 
gave him a frayed upholstered chair to sit in, and then went off 
to the kitchen to fetch some beer. He returned with two bottles, 
placed them on a wooden crate that served as the coffee table, 
and sat down on the sofa across from Quinn. 

“Was it some kind of literary thing you wanted to talk about?” 

Auster began. 

“No,” said Quinn. “I wish it was. But this has nothing to do 

with literature.” 

“With what, then?” 
Quinn paused, looked around the room without seeing any-
thing, and tried to start. “I have a feeling there’s been a terri-
ble  mistake.  I  came  here  looking  for  Paul  Auster,  the  private 
detective.” 

“The what?” Auster laughed, and in that laugh everything was 
suddenly blown to bits. Quinn realized that he was talking non-
sense. He might just as well have asked for Chief Sitting Bull— 
the effect would have been no different. 

“The private detective,” he repeated softly. 
“I’m afraid you’ve got the wrong Paul Auster.” 
“You’re the only one in the book.” 
“That might be,” said Auster. “But I’m not a detective.” 
“Who are you then? What do you do?” 
“I’m a writer.” 
“A  writer?”  Quinn  spoke  the  word  as  though  it  were  a 

lament. 

“I’m sorry,” Auster said. “But that’s what I happen to be.” 
“If that’s true, then there’s no hope. The whole thing is a bad 

dream.” 

“I have no idea what you’re talking about.” 
Quinn told him. He began at the beginning and went through 
the entire story, step by step. The pressure had been building up 
in him since Stillman’s disappearance that morning, and it came 
out of him now as a torrent of words. He told of the phone calls 
for Paul Auster, of his inexplicable acceptance of the case, of his 
meeting with Peter Stillman, of his conversation with Virginia 
Stillman, of his reading Stillman’s book, of his following Stillman 
from Grand Central Station, of Stillman’s daily wanderings, of 

94 

the new york trilogy 

the carpetbag and the broken objects, of the disquieting maps 
that formed letters of the alphabet, of his talks with Stillman, of 
Stillman’s disappearance from the hotel. When he had come to 
the end, he said, “Do you think I’m crazy?” 

“No,” said Auster, who had listened attentively to Quinn’s 
monologue. “If I had been in your place, I probably would have 
done the same thing.” 

These words came as a great relief to Quinn, as if, at long 
last,  the  burden  was  no  longer  his  alone.  He  felt  like  taking 
Auster in his arms and declaring his friendship for life. 

“You see,” said Quinn, “I’m not making it up. I even have 
proof.” He took out his wallet and removed the ﬁve-hundred-
dollar check that Virginia Stillman had written two weeks ear-
lier. He handed it to Auster. “You see,” he said. “It’s even made 
out to you.” 

Auster looked the check over carefully and nodded. “It seems 

to be a perfectly normal check.” 

“Well, it’s yours,” said Quinn. “I want you to have it.” 
“I couldn’t possibly accept it.” 
“It’s of no use to me.” Quinn looked around the apartment 
and  gestured  vaguely.  “Buy  yourself  some  more  books.  Or  a 
few toys for your kid.” 

“This is money you’ve earned. You deserve to have it your-
self. Auster paused for a moment. “There’s one thing I’ll do for 
you, though. Since the check is in my name, I’ll cash it for you. 
I’ll take it to my bank tomorrow morning, deposit it in my ac-
count, and give you the money when it clears.” 

Quinn did not say anything. 
“All right?” Auster asked. “Is it agreed?” 
“All right,” said Quinn at last. “We’ll see what happens.” 
Auster put the check on the coffee table, as if to say the mat-
ter had been settled. Then he leaned back on the sofa and looked 
Quinn in the eyes. “There’s a much more important question 
than the check,” he said. “The fact that my name has been mixed 
up in this. I don’t understand it at all.” 

“I wonder if you’ve had any trouble with your phone lately. 
Wires sometimes get crossed. A person tries to call a number, 
and even though he dials correctly, he gets someone else.” 

city of glass 

95 

“Yes, that’s happened to me before. But even if my phone was 
broken, that doesn’t explain the real problem. It would tell us 
why the call went to you, but not why they wanted to speak to 
me in the ﬁrst place.” 

“Is it possible that you know the people involved?” 
“I’ve never heard of the Stillmans.” 
“Maybe someone wanted to play a practical joke on you.” 
“I don’t hang around with people like that.” 
“You never know.” 
“But the fact is, it’s not a joke. It’s a real case with real people.” 
“Yes,” said Quinn after a long silence. “I’m aware of that.” 
They had come to the end of what they could talk about. Be-
yond that point there was nothing: the random thoughts of men 
who knew nothing. Quinn realized that he should be going. He 
had been there almost an hour, and the time was approaching 
for his call to Virginia Stillman. Nevertheless, he was reluctant 
to  move.  The  chair  was  comfortable,  and  the  beer  had  gone 
slightly to his head. This Auster was the ﬁrst intelligent person 
he had spoken to in a long time. He had read Quinn’s old work, 
he  had  admired  it,  he  had  been  looking  forward  to  more.  In 
spite of everything, it was impossible for Quinn not to feel glad 
of this. 

They sat there for a short time without saying anything. At 
last, Auster gave a little shrug, which seemed to acknowledge 
that they had come to an impasse. He stood up and said, “I was 
about to make some lunch for myself. It’s no trouble making it 
for two.” 

Quinn hesitated. It was as though Auster had read his thoughts, 
divining the thing he wanted most—to eat, to have an excuse to 
stay a while. “I really should be going,” he said. “But yes, thank 
you. A little food can’t do any harm.” 
“How does a ham omelette sound?” 
“Sounds good.” 
Auster  retreated  to  the  kitchen  to  prepare  the  food.  Quinn 
would have liked to offer to help, but he could not budge. His 
body felt like a stone. For want of any other idea, he closed his 
eyes. In the past, it had sometimes comforted him to make the 
world  disappear.  This  time,  however,  Quinn  found  nothing 

96 

the new york trilogy 

interesting  inside  his  head.  It  seemed  as  though  things  had 
ground to a halt in there. Then, from the darkness, he began to 
hear a voice, a chanting, idiotic voice that sang the same sen-
tence over and over again: “You can’t make an omelette without 
breaking eggs.” He opened his eyes to make the words stop. 

There was bread and butter, more beer, knives and forks, salt 
and  pepper,  napkins,  and  omelettes,  two  of  them,  oozing  on 
white plates. Quinn ate with crude intensity, polishing off the 
meal in what seemed a matter of seconds. After that, he made a 
great  effort  to  be  calm.  Tears  lurked  mysteriously  behind  his 
eyes, and his voice seemed to tremble as he spoke, but somehow 
he managed to hold his own. To prove that he was not a self-
obsessed ingrate, he began to question Auster about his writing. 
Auster was somewhat reticent about it, but at last he conceded 
that he was working on a book of essays. The current piece was 
about Don Quixote. 

“One of my favorite books,” said Quinn. 
“Yes, mine too. There’s nothing like it.” 
Quinn asked him about the essay. 
“I suppose you could call it speculative, since I’m not really 
out to prove anything. In fact, it’s all done tongue-in-cheek. An 
imaginative reading, I guess you could say.” 

“What’s the gist?” 
“It mostly has to do with the authorship of the book. Who 

wrote it, and how it was written.” 

“Is there any question?” 
“Of course not. But I mean the book inside the book Cer-

vantes wrote, the one he imagined he was writing.” 

“Ah.” 
“It’s quite simple. Cervantes, if you remember, goes to great 
lengths  to  convince  the  reader  that  he  is  not  the  author.  The 
book, he says, was written in Arabic by Cid Hamete Benengeli. 
Cervantes  describes  how  he  discovered  the  manuscript  by 
chance one day in the market at Toledo. He hires someone to 
translate  it  for  him  into  Spanish,  and  thereafter  he  presents 
himself as no more than the editor of the translation. In fact, he 
cannot even vouch for the accuracy of the translation itself.” 

“And  yet  he  goes  on  to  say,”  Quinn  added,  “that  Cid 

city of glass 

97 

Hamete Benengeli’s is the only true version of Don Quixote’s 
story. All the other versions are frauds, written by imposters. 
He makes a great point of insisting that everything in the book 
really happened in the world.” 

“Exactly. Because the book after all is an attack on the dan-
gers of the make-believe. He couldn’t very well offer a work of 
the imagination to do that, could he? He had to claim that it 
was real.” 

“Still,  I’ve  always  suspected  that  Cervantes  devoured  those 
old  romances.  You  can’t  hate  something  so  violently  unless  a 
part of you also loves it. In some sense, Don Quixote was just a 
stand-in for himself.” 

“I agree with you. What better portrait of a writer than to 

show a man who has been bewitched by books?” 

“Precisely.” 
“In any case, since the book is supposed to be real, it follows 
that the story has to be written by an eyewitness to the events 
that take place in it. But Cid Hamete, the acknowledged author, 
never makes an appearance. Not once does he claim to be pres-
ent at what happens. So, my question is this: who is Cid Hamete 
Benengeli?” 

“Yes, I see what you’re getting at.” 
“The theory I present in the essay is that he is actually a com-
bination of four different people. Sancho Panza is of course the 
witness. There’s no other candidate—since he is the only one 
who accompanies Don Quixote on all his adventures. But San-
cho can neither read nor write. Therefore, he cannot be the au-
thor. On the other hand, we know that Sancho has a great gift 
for  language.  In  spite  of  his  inane  malapropisms,  he  can  talk 
circles around everyone else in the book. It seems perfectly pos-
sible to me that he dictated the story to someone else—namely, 
to the barber and the priest, Don Quixote’s good friends. They 
put the story into proper literary form—in Spanish—and then 
turned the manuscript over to Samson Carrasco, the bachelor 
from  Salamanca,  who  proceeded  to  translate  it  into  Arabic. 
Cervantes  found  the  translation,  had  it  rendered  back  into 
Spanish, and then published the book The Adventures of Don 
Quixote.” 

98 

the new york trilogy 

“But why would Sancho and the others go to all that trouble?” 
“To  cure  Don  Quixote  of  his  madness.  They  want  to  save 
their friend. Remember, in the beginning they burn his books of 
chivalry, but that has no effect. The Knight of the Sad Counte-
nance does not give up his obsession. Then, at one time or an-
other, they all go out looking for him in various disguises—as a 
woman in distress, as the Knight of the Mirrors, as the Knight 
of the White Moon—in order to lure Don Quixote back home. 
In the end, they are actually successful. The book was just one 
of  their  ploys.  The  idea  was  to  hold  a  mirror  up  to  Don 
Quixote’s madness, to record each of his absurd and ludicrous 
delusions,  so  that  when  he  ﬁnally  read  the  book  himself,  he 
would see the error of his ways.” 

“I like that.” 
“Yes.  But  there’s  one  last  twist.  Don  Quixote,  in  my  view, 
was not really mad. He only pretended to be. In fact, he orches-
trated  the  whole  thing  himself.  Remember:  throughout  the 
book Don Quixote is preoccupied by the question of posterity. 
Again and again he wonders how accurately his chronicler will 
record his adventures. This implies knowledge on his part; he 
knows beforehand that this chronicler exists. And who else is it 
but Sancho Panza, the faithful squire whom Don Quixote has 
chosen for exactly this purpose? In the same way, he chose the 
three others to play the roles he destined for them. It was Don 
Quixote who engineered the Benengeli quartet. And not only 
did he select the authors, it was probably he who translated the 
Arabic manuscript back into Spanish. We shouldn’t put it past 
him. For a man so skilled in the art of disguise, darkening his 
skin and donning the clothes of a Moor could not have been 
very difﬁcult. I like to imagine that scene in the marketplace at 
Toledo. Cervantes hiring Don Quixote to decipher the story of 
Don Quixote himself. There’s great beauty to it.” 

“But you still haven’t explained why a man like Don Quixote 
would disrupt his tranquil life to engage in such an elaborate 
hoax.” 

“That’s the most interesting part of all. In my opinion, Don 
Quixote was conducting an experiment. He wanted to test the 
gullibility of his fellow men. Would it be possible, he wondered, 

city of glass 

99 

to stand up before the world and with the utmost conviction 
spew out lies and nonsense? To say that windmills were knights, 
that a barber’s basin was a helmet, that puppets were real peo-
ple? Would it be possible to persuade others to agree with what 
he said, even though they did not believe him? In other words, 
to what extent would people tolerate blasphemies if they gave 
them  amusement?  The  answer  is  obvious,  isn’t  it?  To  any 
extent. For the proof is that we still read the book. It remains 
highly amusing to us. And that’s ﬁnally all anyone wants out of 
a book—to be amused.” 

Auster leaned back on the sofa, smiled with a certain ironic 
pleasure, and lit a cigarette. The man was obviously enjoying 
himself, but the precise nature of that pleasure eluded Quinn. It 
seemed to be a kind of soundless laughter, a joke that stopped 
short of its punchline, a generalized mirth that had no object. 
Quinn was about to say something in response to Auster’s the-
ory,  but  he  was  not  given  the  chance.  Just  as  he  opened  his 
mouth to speak, he was interrupted by a clattering of keys at 
the front door, the sound of the door opening and then slam-
ming shut, and a burst of voices. Auster’s face perked up at the 
sound. He rose from his seat, excused himself to Quinn, and 
walked quickly towards the door. 

Quinn heard laughter in the hallway, ﬁrst from a woman and 
then from a child—the high and the higher, a staccato of ring-
ing shrapnel—and then the basso rumbling of Auster’s guffaw. 
The  child  spoke:  “Daddy,  look  what  I  found!”  And  then  the 
woman explained that it had been lying on the street, and why 
not, it seemed perfectly okay. A moment later he heard the child 
running towards him down the hall. The child shot into the liv-
ing  room,  caught  sight  of  Quinn,  and  stopped  dead  in  his 
tracks. He was a blond-haired boy of ﬁve or six. 

“Good afternoon,” said Quinn. 
The  boy,  rapidly  withdrawing  into  shyness,  managed  no 
more than a faint hello. In his left hand he held a red object that 
Quinn could not identify. Quinn asked the boy what it was. 

“It’s a yoyo,” he answered, opening his hand to show him. 

“I found it on the street.” 

“Does it work?” 

100 

the new york trilogy 

The boy gave an exaggerated pantomine shrug. “Dunno. Siri 

can’t do it. And I don’t know how.” 

Quinn asked him if he could try, and the boy walked over 
and put it in his hand. As he examined the yoyo, he could hear 
the child breathing beside him, watching his every move. The 
yoyo was plastic, similar to the ones he had played with years 
ago, but more elaborate somehow, an artifact of the space age. 
Quinn fastened the loop at the end of the string around his mid-
dle  ﬁnger,  stood  up,  and  gave  it  a  try.  The  yoyo  gave  off  a 
ﬂuted, whistling sound as it descended, and sparks shot off in-
side it. The boy gasped, but then the yoyo stopped, dangling at 
the end of its line. 

“A great philosopher once said,” muttered Quinn, “that the 

way up and the way down are one and the same.” 

“But you didn’t make it go up,” said the boy. “It only went 

down.” 

“You have to keep trying.” 
Quinn  was  rewinding  the  spool  for  another  attempt  when 
Auster and his wife entered the room. He looked up and saw 
the woman ﬁrst. In that one brief moment he knew that he was 
in trouble. She was a tall, thin blonde, radiantly beautiful, with 
an energy and happiness that seemed to make everything around 
her  invisible.  It  was  too  much  for  Quinn.  He  felt  as  though 
Auster were taunting him with the things he had lost, and he re-
sponded with envy and rage, a lacerating self-pity. Yes, he too 
would have liked to have this wife and this child, to sit around 
all day spouting drivel about old books, to be surrounded by 
yoyos and ham omelettes and fountain pens. He prayed to him-
self for deliverance. 

Auster saw the yoyo in his hand and said, “I see you’ve al-
ready met. Daniel,” he said to the boy, “this is Daniel.” And 
then  to  Quinn,  with  that  same  ironic  smile,  “Daniel,  this  is 
Daniel.” 

The boy burst out laughing and said, “Everybody’s Daniel!” 
“That’s right,” said Quinn. “I’m you, and you’re me.” 
“And  around  and  around  it  goes,”  shouted  the  boy,  sud-
denly spreading his arms and spinning around the room like a 
gyroscope. 

city of glass 

101 

“And this,” said Auster, turning to the woman, “is my wife, 

Siri.” 

The wife smiled her smile, said she was glad to meet Quinn 
as though she meant it, and then extended her hand to him. He 
shook  it,  feeling  the  uncanny  slenderness  of  her  bones,  and 
asked if her name was Norwegian. 

“Not many people know that,” she said. 
“Do you come from Norway?” 
“Indirectly,” she said. “By way of Northﬁeld, Minnesota.” 
And then she laughed her laugh, and Quinn felt a little more of 
himself collapse. 

“I know this is sort of last minute,” Auster said, “but if you 
have some time to spare, why don’t you stay and have dinner 
with us?” 

“Ah,” said Quinn, struggling to keep himself in check. “That’s 

very kind. But I really must be going. I’m late as it is.” 

He made one last-effort, smiling at Auster’s wife and waving 
good-bye  to  the  boy.  “So  long,  Daniel,”  he  said,  walking  to-
wards the door. 

The  boy  looked  at  him  from  across  the  room  and  laughed 

again. “Good-bye myself!” he said. 

Auster accompanied him to the door. He said, “I’ll call you as 

soon as the check clears. Are you in the book?” 

“Yes,” said Quinn. “The only one.” 
“If you need me for anything,” said Auster, “just call. I’ll be 

happy to help.” 

Auster reached out to shake hands with him, and Quinn real-
ized that he was still holding the yoyo. He placed it in Auster’s 
right hand, patted him gently on the shoulder, and left. 

11 

Quinn was nowhere now. He had nothing, he knew nothing, he 
knew that he knew nothing. Not only had he been sent back to 
the beginning, he was now before the beginning, and so far be-
fore  the  beginning  that  it  was  worse  than  any  end  he  could 
imagine. 

His watch read nearly six. Quinn walked home the way he had 
come, lengthening his strides with each new block. By the time he 
came to his street, he was running. It’s June second, he told him-
self.  Try  to  remember  that.  This  is  New  York,  and  tomorrow 
will be June third. If all goes well, the following day will be the 
fourth. But nothing is certain. 

The hour had long since passed for his call to Virginia Still-
man, and he debated whether to go through with it. Would it be 
possible to ignore her? Could he abandon everything now, just 
like that? Yes, he said to himself, it was possible. He could for-
get about the case, get back to his routine, write another book. 
He could take a trip if he liked, even leave the country for a 
while. He could go to Paris, for example. Yes, that was possible. 
But anywhere would do, he thought, anywhere at all. 

He sat down in his living room and looked at the walls. They 
had once been white, he remembered, but now they had turned 
a curious shade of yellow. Perhaps one day they would drift fur-
ther into dinginess, lapsing into gray, or even brown, like some 
piece  of  aging  fruit.  A  white  wall  becomes  a  yellow  wall  be-
comes a gray wall, he said to himself. The paint becomes ex-
hausted, the city encroaches with its soot, the plaster crumbles 
within. Changes, then more changes still. 

He smoked a cigarette, and then another, and then another. 

city of glass 

103 

He looked at his hands, saw that they were dirty, and got up to 
wash  them.  In  the  bathroom,  with  the  water  running  in  the 
sink, he decided to shave as well. He lathered his face, took out 
a clean blade, and started scraping off his beard. For some rea-
son, he found it unpleasant to look in the mirror and kept trying 
to  avoid  himself  with  his  eyes.  You’re  getting  old,  he  said  to 
himself, you’re turning into an old fart. Then he went into the 
kitchen, ate a bowl of cornﬂakes, and smoked another cigarette. 
It was seven o’clock now. Once again, he debated whether to 
call  Virginia  Stillman.  As  he  turned  the  question  over  in  his 
mind,  it  occurred  to  him  that  he  no  longer  had  an  opinion. 
He saw the argument for making the call, and at the same time 
he saw the argument for not making it. In the end, it was eti-
quette that decided. It would not be fair to disappear without 
telling her ﬁrst. After that, it would be perfectly acceptable. As 
long as you tell people what you are going to do, he reasoned, it 
doesn’t matter. Then you are free to do what you want. 

The number, however, was busy. He waited ﬁve minutes and 
dialed again. Again, the number was busy. For the next hour 
Quinn alternated between dialing and waiting, always with the 
same result. At last he called the operator and asked whether 
the phone was out of order. There would be a charge of thirty 
cents,  he  was  told.  Then  came  a  crackling  in  the  wires,  the 
sound of further dialing, more voices. Quinn tried to imagine 
what the operators looked like. Then the ﬁrst woman spoke to 
him again: the number was busy. 

Quinn did not know what to think. There were so many pos-
sibilities, he could not even begin. Stillman? The phone off the 
hook? Someone else altogether? 

He turned on the television and watched the ﬁrst two innings 
of the Mets game. Then he dialed once again. Same thing. In 
the top of the third St. Louis scored on a walk, a stolen base, 
an inﬁeld out, and a sacriﬁce ﬂy. The Mets matched that run in 
their half of the inning on a double by Wilson and a single by 
Youngblood. Quinn realized that he didn’t care. A beer com-
mercial came on, and he turned off the sound. For the twentieth 
time he tried to reach Virginia Stillman, and for the twentieth 
time the same thing happened. In the top of the fourth St. Louis 

104 

the new york trilogy 

scored ﬁve runs, and Quinn turned off the picture as well. He 
found  his  red  notebook,  sat  down  at  his  desk,  and  wrote 
steadily for the next two hours. He did not bother to read over 
what he had written. Then he called Virginia Stillman and got 
another  busy  signal.  He  slammed  the  receiver  down  so  hard 
that the plastic cracked. When he tried to call again, he could 
no longer get a dial tone. He stood up, went into the kitchen, 
and made another bowl of cornﬂakes. Then he went to bed. 

In his dream, which he later forgot, he found himself walking 

down Broadway, holding Auster’s son by the hand. 

Quinn spent the following day on his feet. He started early, just 
after eight o’clock, and did not stop to consider where he was 
going.  As  it  happened,  he  saw  many  things  that  day  he  had 
never noticed before. 

Every twenty minutes he would go into a phone booth and 
call Virginia Stillman. As it had been the night before, so it was 
today.  By  now  Quinn  expected  the  number  to  be  busy.  It  no 
longer even bothered him. The busy signal had become a coun-
terpoint to his steps, a metronome beating steadily inside the 
random  noises  of  the  city.  There  was  comfort  in  the  thought 
that whenever he dialed the number, the sound would be there 
for him, never swerving in its denial, negating speech and the 
possibility of speech, as insistent as the beating of a heart. Vir-
ginia and Peter Stillman were shut off from him now. But he 
could soothe his conscience with the thought that he was still 
trying. Whatever darkness they were leading him into, he had 
not abandoned them yet. 

He  walked  down  Broadway  to  72nd  Street,  turned  east  to 
Central Park West, and followed it to 59th Street and the statue 
of Columbus. There he turned east once again, moving along 
Central Park South until Madison Avenue, and then cut right, 
walking  downtown  to  Grand  Central  Station.  After  circling 
haphazardly for a few blocks, he continued south for a mile, 
came  to  the  juncture  of  Broadway  and  Fifth  Avenue  at  23rd 
Street, paused to look at the Flatiron Building, and then shifted 
course,  taking  a  westward  turn  until  he  reached  Seventh  Av-
enue,  at  which  point  he  veered  left  and  progressed  further 

city of glass 

105 

downtown. At Sheridan Square he turned east again, ambling 
down Waverly Place, crossing Sixth Avenue, and continuing on 
to Washington Square. He walked through the arch and made 
his  way  south  among  the  crowds,  stopping  momentarily  to 
watch  a  juggler  perform  on  a  slack  rope  stretched  between  a 
light  pole  and  a  tree  trunk.  Then  he  left  the  little  park  at  its 
downtown  east  corner,  went  through  the  university  housing 
project  with  its  patches  of  green  grass,  and  turned  right  at 
Houston Street. At West Broadway he turned again, this time to 
the left, and proceeded onward to Canal. Angling slightly to his 
right, he passed through a vest pocket park and swung around 
to Varick Street, walked by number 6, where he had once lived, 
and then regained his southern course, picking up West Broad-
way again where it merged with Varick. West Broadway took 
him  to  the  base  of  the  World  Trade  Center  and  on  into  the 
lobby of one of the towers, where he made his thirteenth call of 
the day to Virginia Stillman. Quinn decided to eat something, 
entered  one  of  the  fast-food  places  on  the  ground  ﬂoor,  and 
leisurely consumed a sandwich as he did some work in the red 
notebook. Afterwards, he walked east again, wandering through 
the  narrow  streets  of  the  ﬁnancial  district,  and  then  headed 
further south, towards Bowling Green, where he saw the water 
and the seagulls above it, careening in the midday light. For a 
moment he considered taking a ride on the Staten Island Ferry, 
but then thought better of it and began tracking his way to the 
north.  At  Fulton  Street  he  slid  to  his  right  and  followed  the 
northeastward  path  of  East  Broadway,  which  led  through 
the miasma  of  the  Lower  East  Side  and  then  up  into  China-
town.  From  there  he  found  the  Bowery,  which  carried  him 
along  to  Fourteenth  Street.  He  then  hooked  left,  cut  through 
Union  Square,  and  continued  uptown  along  Park  Avenue 
South. At 23rd Street he jockeyed north. A few blocks later he 
jutted right again, went one block to the east, and then walked 
up Third Avenue for a while. At 32nd Street he turned right, 
came upon Second Avenue, turned left, moved uptown another 
three blocks, and then turned right one last time, whereupon he 
met up with First Avenue. He then walked the remaining seven 
blocks to the United Nations and decided to take a short rest. 

106 

the new york trilogy 

He sat down on a stone bench in the plaza and breathed deeply, 
idling in the air and the light with closed eyes. Then he opened 
the  red  notebook,  took  the  deaf  mute’s  pen  from  his  pocket, 
and began a new page. 

For the ﬁrst time since he had bought the red notebook, what 
he  wrote  that  day  had  nothing  to  do  with  the  Stillman  case. 
Rather, he concentrated on the things he had seen while walk-
ing. He did not stop to think about what he was doing, nor did 
he  analyze  the  possible  implications  of  this  uncustomary  act. 
He felt an urge to record certain facts, and he wanted to put 
them down on paper before he forgot them. 

Today,  as  never  before:  the  tramps,  the  down-and-outs,  the 
shopping-bag  ladies,  the  drifters  and  drunks.  They  range  from 
the merely destitute to the wretchedly broken. Wherever you turn, 
they are there, in good neighborhoods and bad. 

Some beg with a semblance of pride. Give me this money, they 
seem to say, and soon I will be back there with the rest of you, 
rushing back and forth on my daily rounds. Others have given up 
hope of ever leaving their tramphood. They lie there sprawled out 
on the sidewalk with their hat, or cup, or box, not even bothering 
to look up at the passerby, too defeated even to thank the ones 
who  drop  a  coin  beside  them.  Still  others  try  to  work  for  the 
money  they  are  given:  the  blind  pencil  sellers,  the  winos  who 
wash the windshield of your car. Some tell stories, usually tragic 
accounts of their own lives, as if to give their benefactors some-
thing for their kindness—even if only words. 

Others have real talents. The old black man today, for exam-
ple,  who  tap-danced  while  juggling  cigarettes—still  digniﬁed, 
clearly once a vaudevillian, dressed in a purple suit with a green 
shirt  and  a  yellow  tie,  his  mouth  ﬁxed  in  a  half-remembered 
stage smile. There are also the pavement chalk artists and musi-
cians: saxophonists, electric guitarists, ﬁddlers. Occasionally, you 
will even come across a genius, as I did today: 

A clarinetist of no particular age, wearing a hat that obscured 
his face, and sitting cross-legged on the sidewalk, in the manner 
of a snake-charmer. Directly in front of him were two wind-up 
monkeys,  one  with  a  tambourine  and  the  other  with  a  drum. 

city of glass 

107 

With the one shaking and the other banging, beating out a weird 
and precise syncopation, the man would improvise endless tiny 
variations on his instrument, his body swaying stifﬂy back and 
forth,  energetically  miming  the  monkeys’  rhythm.  He  played 
jauntily  and  with  ﬂair,  crisp  and  looping  ﬁgures  in  the  minor 
mode, as if glad to be there with his mechanical friends, enclosed 
in the universe he had created, never once looking up. It went on 
and on, always ﬁnally the same, and yet the longer I listened the 
harder I found it to leave. 

To be inside that music, to be drawn into the circle of its repe-
titions: perhaps that is a place where one could ﬁnally disappear. 
But beggars and performers make up only a small part of the 
vagabond  population.  They  are  the  aristocracy,  the  elite  of  the 
fallen.  Far  more  numerous  are  those  with  nothing  to  do,  with 
nowhere to go. Many are drunks—but that term does not do jus-
tice to the devastation they embody. Hulks of despair, clothed in 
rags,  their  faces  bruised  and  bleeding,  they  shufﬂe  through  the 
streets  as  though  in  chains.  Asleep  in  doorways,  staggering  in-
sanely through trafﬁc, collapsing on sidewalks—they seem to be 
everywhere the moment you look for them. Some will starve to 
death, others will die of exposure, still others will be beaten or 
burned or tortured. 

For every soul lost in this particular hell, there are several oth-
ers  locked  inside  madness—unable  to  exit  to  the  world  that 
stands at the threshold of their bodies. Even though they seem to 
be there, they cannot be counted as present. The man, for exam-
ple, who goes everywhere with a set of drumsticks, pounding the 
pavement with them in a reckless, nonsensical rhythm, stooped 
over  awkwardly  as  he  advances  along  the  street,  beating  and 
beating away at the cement. Perhaps he thinks he is doing impor-
tant work. Perhaps, if he did not do what he did, the city would 
fall  apart.  Perhaps  the  moon  would  spin  out  of  its  orbit  and 
come  crashing  into  the  earth.  There  are  the  ones  who  talk  to 
themselves,  who  mutter,  who  scream,  who  curse,  who  groan, 
who tell themselves stories as if to someone else. The man I saw 
today, sitting like a heap of garbage in front of Grand Central 
Station,  the  crowds  rushing  past  him,  saying  in  a  loud,  panic-
stricken  voice:  “Third  Marines. . . . Eating  bees. . . . The  bees  

108 

the new york trilogy 

crawling out of my mouth.” Or the woman shouting at an invis-
ible  companion:  “And  what  if  I  don’t  want  to!  What  if  I  just 
fucking don’t want to!” 

There are the women with their shopping bags and the men 
with their cardboard boxes, hauling their possessions from one 
place to the next, forever on the move, as if it mattered where they 
were. There is the man wrapped in the American ﬂag. There is the 
woman with a Halloween mask on her face. There is the man in 
a  ravaged  overcoat,  his  shoes  wrapped  in  rags,  carrying  a  per-
fectly pressed white shirt on a hanger—still sheathed in the dry-
cleaner’s plastic. There is the man in a business suit with bare feet 
and  a  football  helmet  on  his  head.  There  is  the  woman  whose 
clothes are covered from head to toe with Presidential campaign 
buttons. There is the man who walks with his face in his hands, 
weeping hysterically and saying over and over again: “No, no, 
no. He’s dead. He’s not dead. No, no, no. He’s dead. He’s not 
dead.” 

Baudelaire: Il me semble que je serais toujours bien là où je ne 
suis  pas.  In  other  words:  It  seems  to  me  that  I  will  always  be 
happy in the place where I am not. Or, more bluntly: Wherever I 
am not is the place where I am myself. Or else, taking the bull by 
the horns: Anywhere out of the world. 

It  was  almost  evening.  Quinn  closed  the  red  notebook  and 
put  the  pen  in  his  pocket.  He  wanted  to  think  a  little  more 
about  what  he  had  written  but  found  he  could  not.  The  air 
around him was soft, almost sweet, as though it no longer be-
longed to the city. He stood up from the bench, stretched his 
arms and legs, and walked to a phone booth, where he called 
Virginia Stillman again. Then he went to dinner. 

In the restaurant he realized that he had come to a decision 
about things. Without his even knowing it, the answer was al-
ready there for him, sitting fully formed in his head. The busy 
signal, he saw now, had not been arbitrary. It had been a sign, 
and it was telling him that he could not yet break his connec-
tion with the case, even if he wanted to. He had tried to contact 
Virginia Stillman in order to tell her that he was through, but 
the fates had not allowed it. Quinn paused to consider this. Was 

city of glass 

109 

“fate” really the word he wanted to use? It seemed like such a 
ponderous  and  old-fashioned  choice.  And  yet,  as  he  probed 
more deeply into it, he discovered that was precisely what he 
meant to say. Or, if not precisely, it came closer than any other 
term he could think of. Fate in the sense of what was, of what 
happened  to  be.  It  was  something  like  the  word  “it”  in  the 
phrase “it is raining” or “it is night.” What that “it” referred to 
Quinn had never known. A generalized condition of things as 
they were, perhaps; the state of is-ness that was the ground on 
which the happenings of the world took place. He could not be 
any  more  deﬁnite  than  that.  But  perhaps  he  was  not  really 
searching for anything deﬁnite. 

It was fate, then. Whatever he thought of it, however much he 
might  want  it  to  be  different,  there  was  nothing  he  could  do 
about  it.  He  had  said  yes  to  a  proposition,  and  now  he  was 
powerless to undo that yes. That meant only one thing: he had 
to go through with it. There could not be two answers. It was 
either this or that. And so it was, whether he liked it or not. 

The  business  about  Auster  was  clearly  a  mistake.  Perhaps 
there had once been a private detective in New York with that 
name. The husband of Peter’s nurse was a retired policeman— 
therefore not a young man. In his day there had no doubt been 
an Auster with a good reputation, and he had naturally thought 
of him when called upon to provide a detective. He had looked 
in  the  telephone  book,  had  found  only  one  person  with  that 
name  and  assumed  he  had  the  right  man.  Then  he  gave  the 
number to the Stillmans. At that point, the second mistake had 
occurred. There had been a foul-up in the lines, and somehow 
his number had got crossed with Auster’s. That kind of thing 
happened  every  day.  And  so  he  had  received  the  call—which 
anyway had been destined for the wrong man. It all made per-
fect sense. 

One problem still remained. If he was unable to contact Vir-
ginia Stillman—if, as he believed, he was meant not to contact 
her—how exactly was he to proceed? His job was to protect Pe-
ter, to make sure that no harm came to him. Did it matter what 
Virginia Stillman thought he was doing as long as he did what 
he was supposed to do? Ideally, an operative should maintain 

110 

the new york trilogy 

close contact with his client. That had always been one of Max 
Work’s principles. But was it really necessary? As long as Quinn 
did his job, how could it matter? If there were any misunder-
standings,  surely  they  could  be  cleared  up  once  the  case  was 
settled. 

He could proceed, then, as he wished. He would no longer 
have to telephone Virginia Stillman. He could abandon the orac-
ular busy signal once and for all. From now on, there would be 
no stopping him. It would be impossible for Stillman to come 
near Peter without Quinn knowing about it. 

Quinn paid up his check, put a mentholated toothpick in his 
mouth, and began walking again. He did not have far to go. 
Along the way, he stopped at a twenty-four-hour Citibank and 
checked his balance with the automatic teller. There were three 
hundred  and  forty-nine  dollars  in  his  account.  He  withdrew 
three  hundred,  put  the  cash  in  his  pocket,  and  continued 
uptown. At 57th Street he turned left and walked to Park Av-
enue. There he turned right and went on walking north until 
69th Street, at which point he turned onto the Stillmans’ block. 
The  building  looked  the  same  as  it  had  on  the  ﬁrst  day.  He 
glanced up to see if there were any lights on in the apartment, 
but  he  could  not  remember  which  windows  were  theirs.  The 
street  was  utterly  quiet.  No  cars  drove  down  it,  no  people 
passed. Quinn stepped across to the other side, found a spot for 
himself in a narrow alleyway, and settled in for the night. 

12 

A long time passed. Exactly how long it is impossible to say. 
Weeks certainly, but perhaps even months. The account of this 
period is less full than the author would have liked. But infor-
mation  is  scarce,  and  he  has  preferred  to  pass  over  in  silence 
what could not be deﬁnitely conﬁrmed. Since this story is based 
entirely on facts, the author feels it his duty not to overstep the 
bounds of the veriﬁable, to resist at all costs the perils of inven-
tion. Even the red notebook, which until now has provided a 
detailed account of Quinn’s experiences, is suspect. We cannot 
say for certain what happened to Quinn during this period, for 
it is at this point in the story that he began to lose his grip. 

He remained for the most part in the alley. It was not uncom-
fortable once he got used to it, and it had the advantage of be-
ing well hidden from view. From there he could observe all the 
comings and goings at the Stillmans’ building. No one left and 
no one entered without his seeing who it was. In the beginning, 
it surprised him that he saw neither Virginia nor Peter. But there 
were many delivery men constantly coming and going, and even-
tually he realized that it was not necessary for them to leave the 
building. Everything could be brought to them. It was then that 
Quinn understood that they, too, were holing up, waiting inside 
their apartment for the case to end. 

Little by little, Quinn adapted to his new life. There were a 
number of problems to be faced, but one by one he managed to 
solve them. First of all, there was the question of food. Because 
utmost vigilance was required of him, he was reluctant to leave 
his post for any length of time. It tormented him to think that 
something  might  happen  in  his  absence,  and  he  made  every 

112 

the new york trilogy 

effort to minimize the risks. He had read somewhere that be-
tween  3:30  and  4:30  a.m.  there  were  more  people  asleep  in 
their  beds  than  at  any  other  time.  Statistically  speaking,  the 
chances were best that nothing would happen during that hour, 
and therefore Quinn chose it as the time to do his shopping. On 
Lexington Avenue not far north there was an all-night grocery, 
and at three-thirty every morning Quinn would walk there at a 
brisk  pace  (for  the  exercise,  and  also  to  save  time)  and  buy 
whatever he needed for the next twenty-four hours. It turned out 
not to be much—and, as it happened, less and less as time went 
on. For Quinn learned that eating did not necessarily solve the 
problem  of  food.  A  meal  was  no  more  than  a  fragile  defense 
against the inevitability of the next meal. Food itself could never 
answer the question of food; it only delayed the moment when 
the  question  would  have  to  be  asked  in  earnest.  The  greatest 
danger, therefore, was in eating too much. If he took in more 
than  he  should,  his  appetite  for  the  next  meal  increased,  and 
thus more food was needed to satisfy him. By keeping a close 
and constant watch on himself, Quinn was gradually able to re-
verse the process. His ambition was to eat as little as possible, 
and in this way to stave off his hunger. In the best of all worlds, 
he might have been able to approach absolute zero, but he did 
not want to be overly ambitious in his present circumstances. 
Rather, he kept the total fast in his mind as an ideal, a state of 
perfection he could aspire to but never achieve. He did not want 
to starve himself to death and he reminded himself of this every 
day—he  simply  wanted  to  leave  himself  free  to  think  of  the 
things that truly concerned him. For now, that meant keeping 
the case uppermost in his thoughts. Fortunately, this coincided 
with his other major ambition: to make the three hundred dol-
lars last as long as he could. It goes without saying that Quinn 
lost a good deal of weight during this period. 

His second problem was sleep. He could not stay awake all 
the time, and yet that was really what the situation required. 
Here, too, he was forced to make certain concessions. As with 
eating, Quinn felt that he could make do with less than he was 
accustomed to. Instead of the six to eight hours of sleep he was 
used  to  getting,  he  decided  to  limit  himself  to  three  or  four. 

city of glass 

113 

Adjusting  to  this  was  difﬁcult,  but  far  more  difﬁcult  was  the 
problem  of  how  to  distribute  these  hours  so  as  to  maintain 
maximum  vigilance.  Clearly,  he  could  not  sleep  for  three  or 
four hours in a row. The risks were simply too great. Theoreti-
cally, the most efﬁcient use of the time would be to sleep for 
thirty seconds every ﬁve or six minutes. That would reduce his 
chances of missing something almost to nil. But he realized that 
this  was  physically  impossible.  On  the  other  hand,  using  this 
impossibility as a kind of model, he tried to train himself into 
taking a series of short naps, alternating between sleeping and 
waking as often as he could. It was a long struggle, demanding 
discipline  and  concentration,  for  the  longer  the  experiment 
went on, the more exhausted he became. In the beginning, he 
tried  for  sequences  of  forty-ﬁve  minutes  each,  then  gradually 
reduced them to thirty minutes. Towards the end, he had begun 
to manage the ﬁfteen-minute nap with a fair amount of success. 
He was helped in his efforts by a nearby church, whose bells 
rang  every  ﬁfteen  minutes—one  stroke  on  the  quarter-hour, 
two  strokes  on  the  half-hour,  three  strokes  on  the  three-
quarter-hour, and four strokes on the hour, followed by the ap-
propriate number of strokes for the hour itself. Quinn lived by 
the rhythm of that clock, and eventually he had trouble distin-
guishing it from his own pulse. Starting at midnight, he would 
begin his routine, closing his eyes and falling asleep before the 
clock had struck twelve. Fifteen minutes later he would wake, 
at  the  half-hour  double  stroke  fall  asleep,  and  at  the  three-
quarter-hour triple stroke wake once more. At three-thirty he 
would go off for his food, return by four o’clock, and then go 
to sleep again. His dreams during this period were few. When 
they  did  occur,  they  were  strange:  brief  visions  of  the 
immediate—his  hands,  his  shoes,  the  brick  wall  beside  him. 
Nor was there ever a moment when he was not dead tired. 

His  third  problem  was  shelter,  but  this  was  more  easily 
solved than the other two. Fortunately, the weather remained 
warm, and as late spring moved into summer, there was little 
rain. Every now and then there was a shower, and once or twice 
a downpour with thunder and lightning, but all in all it was not 
bad, and Quinn never stopped giving thanks for his luck. At the 

114 

the new york trilogy 

back of the alley there was a large metal bin for garbage, and 
whenever it rained at night Quinn would climb into it for pro-
tection. Inside, the smell was overpowering, and it would per-
meate  his  clothes  for  days  on  end,  but  Quinn  preferred  it  to 
getting wet, for he did not want to run the risk of catching cold 
or falling ill. Happily, the lid had been bent out of shape and 
did not ﬁt tightly over the bin. In one corner there was a gap of 
six or eight inches that formed a kind of air hole for Quinn to 
breathe through—sticking his nose out into the night. By stand-
ing  on  his  knees  on  top  of  the  garbage  and  leaning  his  body 
against one wall of the bin, he found that he was not altogether 
uncomfortable. 

On clear nights he would sleep under the bin, positioning his 
head in such a way that the moment he opened his eyes he could 
see the front door of the Stillmans’ building. As for emptying 
his bladder, he usually did this in the far corner of the alley, be-
hind the bin and with his back to the street. His bowels were 
another matter, and for this he would climb into the bin to en-
sure privacy. There were also a number of plastic garbage cans 
beside the bin, and from one of these Quinn was usually able to 
ﬁnd  a  sufﬁciently  clean  newspaper  to  wipe  himself,  although 
once, in an emergency, he was forced to use a page from the red 
notebook. As for washing and shaving, these were two of the 
things that Quinn learned to live without. 

How he managed to keep himself hidden during this period 
is a mystery. But it seems that no one discovered him or called 
his  presence  to  the  attention  of  the  authorities.  No  doubt  he 
learned  early  on  the  schedule  of  the  garbage  collectors  and 
made sure to be out of the alley when they came. Likewise the 
building superintendent, who deposited the trash each evening 
in the bin and the cans. Remarkable as it seems, no one ever no-
ticed Quinn. It was as though he had melted into the walls of 
the city. 

The problems of housekeeping and material life occupied a 
certain portion of each day. For the most part, however, Quinn 
had time on his hands. Because he did not want anyone to see 
him, he had to avoid other people as systematically as he could. 
He could not look at them, he could not talk to them, he could 

city of glass 

115 

not think about them. Quinn had always thought of himself as 
a man who liked to be alone. For the past ﬁve years, in fact, he 
had actively sought it. But it was only now, as his life continued 
in the alley, that he began to understand the true nature of soli-
tude. He had nothing to fall back on anymore but himself. And 
of all the things he discovered during the days he was there, this 
was the one he did not doubt: that he was falling. What he did 
not understand, however, was this: in that he was falling, how 
could he be expected to catch himself as well? Was it possible to 
be at the top and the bottom at the same time? It did not seem 
to make sense. 

He spent many hours looking up at the sky. From his position 
at the back of the alley, wedged in between the bin and the wall, 
there were few other things to see, and as the days passed he be-
gan to take pleasure in the world overhead. He saw that, above 
all,  the  sky  was  never  still.  Even  on  cloudless  days,  when  the 
blue seemed to be everywhere, there were constant little shifts, 
gradual disturbances as the sky thinned out and grew thick, the 
sudden whitenesses of planes, birds, and ﬂying papers. Clouds 
complicated  the  picture,  and  Quinn  spent  many  afternoons 
studying them, trying to learn their ways, seeing if he could not 
predict what would happen to them. He became familiar with 
the  cirrus,  the  cumulus,  the  stratus,  the  nimbus,  and  all  their 
various  combinations,  watching  for  each  one  in  its  turn,  and 
seeing how the sky would change under its inﬂuence. Clouds, 
too, introduced the matter of color, and there was a wide range 
to contend with, spanning from black to white, with an inﬁnity 
of grays between. These all had to be investigated, measured, 
and  deciphered.  On  top  of  this,  there  were  the  pastels  that 
formed whenever the sun and the clouds interacted at certain 
times of day. The spectrum of variables was immense, the result 
depending on the temperatures of the different atmosphere lev-
els, the types of clouds present in the sky, and where the sun 
happened to be at that particular moment. From all this came 
the reds and pinks that Quinn liked so much, the purples and 
vermilions,  the  oranges  and  lavenders,  the  golds  and  feathery 
persimmons. Nothing lasted for long. The colors would soon 
disperse, merging with others and moving on or fading as the 

116 

the new york trilogy 

night appeared. Almost always there was a wind to hasten these 
events. From where he sat in the alley, Quinn could rarely feel 
it, but by watching its effect on the clouds, he could gauge its 
intensity and the nature of the air it carried. One by one, all 
weathers passed over his head, from sunshine to storms, from 
gloom to radiance. There were the dawns and dusks to observe, 
the midday transformations, the early evenings, the nights. Even 
in its blackness, the sky did not rest. Clouds drifted through the 
dark, the moon was forever in a different form, the wind con-
tinued to blow. Sometimes a star even settled into Quinn’s patch 
of sky, and as he looked up he would wonder if it was still there, 
or if it had not burned out long ago. 

The  days  therefore  came  and  went.  Stillman  did  not  appear. 
Quinn’s money ran out at last. For some time he had been steel-
ing himself for this moment, and towards the end he hoarded 
his funds with maniacal precision. No penny was spent without 
ﬁrst judging the necessity of what he thought he needed, with-
out ﬁrst weighing all the consequences, pro and con. But not 
even the most stringent economies could halt the march of the 
inevitable. 

It was some time in mid-August when Quinn discovered that 
he no longer could hold out. The author has conﬁrmed this date 
through diligent research. It is possible, however, that this mo-
ment occurred as early as late July, or as late as early September, 
since all investigations of this sort must make allowances for a 
certain margin of error. But, to the best of his knowledge, hav-
ing considered the evidence carefully and sifted through all ap-
parent contradictions, the author places the following events in 
August, somewhere between the twelfth and twenty-ﬁfth of the 
month. 

Quinn had almost nothing now—a few coins that amounted 
to less than a dollar. He was certain that money had arrived for 
him during his absence. It was simply a matter of retrieving the 
checks from his mailbox at the post ofﬁce, taking them to the 
bank, and cashing them. If all went well, he could be back to 
East 69th Street within a few hours. We will never know the ag-
onies he suffered at having to leave his spot. 

city of glass 

117 

He did not have enough money to take the bus. For the ﬁrst 
time in many weeks, then, he began to walk. It was odd to be 
on his feet again, moving steadily from one place to the next, 
swinging his arms back and forth, feeling the pavement under 
the soles of his shoes. And yet there he was, walking west on 
69th Street, turning right on Madison Avenue, and beginning 
to  make  his  way  north.  His  legs  were  weak,  and  he  felt  as 
though his head were made of air. He had to stop every now 
and then to catch his breath, and once, on the brink of falling, 
he had to grab hold of a lamppost. He found that things went 
better if he lifted his feet as little as possible, shufﬂing forward 
with  slow,  sliding  steps.  In  this  way  he  could  conserve  his 
strength for the corners, where he had to balance himself care-
fully before and after each step up and down from the curb. 

At  84th  Street  he  paused  momentarily  in  front  of  a  shop. 
There was a mirror on the facade, and for the ﬁrst time since he 
had begun his vigil, Quinn saw himself. It was not that he had 
been afraid to confront his own image. Quite simply, it had not 
occurred to him. He had been too busy with his job to think 
about himself, and it was as though the question of his appear-
ance had ceased to exist. Now, as he looked at himself in the 
shop mirror, he was neither shocked nor disappointed. He had 
no feeling about it at all, for the fact was that he did not recog-
nize the person he saw there as himself. He thought that he had 
spotted  a  stranger  in  the  mirror,  and  in  that  ﬁrst  moment  he 
turned  around  sharply  to  see  who  it  was.  But  there  was  no 
one near him. Then he turned back to examine the mirror more 
carefully. Feature by feature, he studied the face in front of him 
and slowly began to notice that this person bore a certain re-
semblance to the man he had always thought of as himself. Yes, 
it  seemed  more  than  likely  that  this  was  Quinn.  Even  now, 
however, he was not upset. The transformation in his appear-
ance had been so drastic that he could not help but be fasci-
nated  by  it.  He  had  turned  into  a  bum.  His  clothes  were 
discolored, disheveled, debauched by ﬁlth. His face was covered 
by a thick black beard with tiny ﬂecks of gray in it. His hair was 
long and tangled, matted into tufts behind his ears, and crawl-
ing down in curls almost to his shoulders. More than anything 

118 

the new york trilogy 

else, he reminded himself of Robinson Crusoe, and he marveled 
at  how  quickly  these  changes  had  taken  place  in  him.  It  had 
been  no  more  than  a  matter  of  months,  and  in  that  time  he 
had become  someone  else.  He  tried  to  remember  himself  as 
he had been before, but he found it difﬁcult. He looked at this 
new Quinn and shrugged. It did not really matter. He had been 
one thing before, and now he was another. It was neither better 
nor worse. It was different, and that was all. 

He continued uptown for several more blocks, then turned 
left, crossed Fifth Avenue, and walked along the wall of Central 
Park.  At  96th  Street  he  entered  the  park  and  found  himself 
glad to  be  among  the  grass  and  trees.  Late  summer  had  ex-
hausted much of the greenness, and here and there the ground 
showed  through  in  brown,  dusty  patches.  But  the  trees  over-
head were still ﬁlled with leaves, and everywhere there was a 
sparkling of light and shade that struck Quinn as miraculous 
and beautiful. It was late morning, and the heavy heat of the af-
ternoon lay several hours off. 

Halfway through the park Quinn was overtaken by an urge 
to rest. There were no streets here, no city blocks to mark the 
stages  of  his  progress,  and  it  seemed  to  him  suddenly  that 
he had been walking for hours. Making it to the other side of 
the  park  felt  as  though  it  would  take  another  day  or  two  of 
dogged hiking. He went on for a few more minutes, but at last 
his legs gave out. There was an oak tree not far from where he 
stood,  and  Quinn  went  for  it  now,  staggering  in  the  way  a 
drunk gropes for his bed after an all-night binge. Using the red 
notebook as a pillow, he lay down on a grassy mound just north 
of the tree and fell asleep. It was the ﬁrst unbroken sleep he had 
had in months, and he did not wake until it was morning again. 
His watch said that it was nine-thirty, and he cringed to think 
of the time he had lost. Quinn stood up and began loping to-
wards the west, amazed that his strength was back, but cursing 
himself for the hours he had wasted in getting it. He was be-
yond consolation. No matter what he did now, he felt that he 
would always be too late. He could run for a hundred years, 
and still he would arrive just as the doors were closing. 

He emerged from the park at 96th Street and continued west. 

city of glass 

119 

At the corner of Columbus Avenue he saw a telephone booth, 
which suddenly reminded him of Auster and the ﬁve-hundred-
dollar  check.  Perhaps  he  could  save  time  by  collecting  the 
money now. He could go directly to Auster, put the cash in his 
pocket, and avoid the trip to the post ofﬁce and the bank. But 
would Auster have the cash on hand? If not, perhaps they could 
arrange to meet at Auster’s bank. 

Quinn entered the booth, dug into his pocket, and removed 
what money was left: two dimes, a quarter, and eight pennies. 
He dialed information for the number, got his dime back in the 
coin return box, deposited the dime again, and dialed. Auster 
picked up on the third ring. 

“Quinn here,” said Quinn. 
He heard a groan on the other end. “Where the hell have you 
been hiding?” There was irritation in Auster’s voice. “I’ve called 
you a thousand times.” 

“I’ve been busy. Working on the case.” 
“The case?” 
“The case. The Stillman case. Remember?” 
“Of course I remember.” 
“That’s why I’m calling. I want to come for the money now. 

The ﬁve hundred dollars.” 

“What money?” 
“The check, remember? The check I gave you. The one made 

out to Paul Auster.” 

“Of course I remember. But there is no money. That’s why 

I’ve been trying to call you.” 

“You had no right to spend it,” Quinn shouted, suddenly be-

side himself. “That money belonged to me.” 

“I didn’t spend it. The check bounced.” 
“I don’t believe you.” 
“You can come here and see the letter from the bank, if you 

want. It’s sitting here on my desk. The check was no good.” 

“That’s absurd.” 
“Yes, it is. But it hardly matters now, does it?” 
“Of course it matters. I need the money to go on with the 

case.” 

“But there is no case. It’s all over.” 

120 

the new york trilogy 

“What are you talking about?” 
“The same thing you are. The Stillman case.” 
“But what do you mean ‘it’s over’? I’m still working on it.” 
“I can’t believe it.” 
“Stop being so goddamn mysterious. I don’t have the slight -

est idea what you’re talking about.” 

“I  don’t  believe  you  don’t  know.  Where  the  hell  have  you 

been? Don’t you read the newspapers?” 

“Newspapers? Goddamit, say what you mean. I don’t have 

time to read newspapers.” 

There was a silence on the other end, and for a moment Quinn 
felt that the conversation was over, that he had somehow fallen 
asleep and had just now woken up to ﬁnd the telephone in his 
hand. 

“Stillman jumped off the Brooklyn Bridge,” Auster said. “He 

committed suicide two and a half months ago.” 

“You’re lying.” 
“It was all over the papers. You can check for yourself.” 
Quinn said nothing. 
“It was your Stillman,” Auster went on. “The one who used 
to be a professor at Columbia. They say he died in mid-air, be-
fore he even hit the water.” 

“And Peter? What about Peter?” 
“I have no idea.” 
“Does anybody know?” 
“Impossible to say. You’d have to ﬁnd that out yourself.” 
“Yes, I suppose so,” said Quinn. 
Then,  without  saying  good-bye  to  Auster,  he  hung  up.  He 
took the other dime and used it to call Virginia Stillman. He 
still knew the number by heart. 

A mechanical voice spoke the number back to him and an-
nounced that it had been disconnected. The voice then repeated 
the message, and afterwards the line went dead. 

Quinn could not be sure what he felt. In those ﬁrst moments, it 
was as though he felt nothing, as though the whole thing added 
up to nothing at all. He decided to postpone thinking about it. 
There  would  be  time  for  that  later,  he  thought.  For  now,  the 

city of glass 

121 

only thing that seemed to matter was going home. He would re-
turn to his apartment, take off his clothes, and sit in a hot bath. 
Then he would look through the new magazines, play a few rec-
ords, do a little housecleaning. Then, perhaps, he would begin 
to think about it. 

He walked back to 107th Street. The keys to his house were 
still  in  his  pocket,  and  as  he  unlocked  his  front  door  and 
walked  up  the  three  ﬂights  to  his  apartment,  he  felt  almost 
happy. But then he stepped into the apartment, and that was the 
end of that. 

Everything  had  changed.  It  seemed  like  another  place  alto-
gether,  and  Quinn  thought  he  must  have  entered  the  wrong 
apartment by mistake. He backed into the hall and checked the 
number  on  the  door.  No,  he  had  not  been  wrong.  It  was  his 
apartment; it was his key that had opened the door. He walked 
back inside and took stock of the situation. The furniture had 
been rearranged. Where there had once been a table there was 
now a chair. Where there had once been a sofa there was now a 
table. There were new pictures on the walls, a new rug was on 
the ﬂoor. And his desk? He looked for it but could not ﬁnd it. 
He studied the furniture more carefully and saw that it was not 
his. What had been there the last time he was in the apartment 
had been removed. His desk was gone, his books were gone, the 
child drawings of his dead son were gone. He went from the 
living room to the bedroom. His bed was gone, his bureau was 
gone. He opened the top drawer of the bureau that was there. 
Women’s  underthings  lay  tangled  in  random  clumps:  panties, 
bras, slips. The next drawer held women’s sweaters. Quinn went 
no further than that. On a table near the bed there was a framed 
photograph of a blond, beefy-faced young man. Another photo-
graph  showed  the  same  young  man  smiling,  standing  in  the 
snow with his arm around an insipid-looking girl. She, too, was 
smiling. Behind them there was a ski slope, a man with two skis 
on his shoulder, and the blue winter sky. 

Quinn went back to the living room and sat down in a chair. 
He saw a half-smoked cigarette with lipstick on it in an ashtray. 
He  lit  it  up  and  smoked  it.  Then  he  went  into  the  kitchen, 
opened the refrigerator, and found some orange juice and a loaf 

122 

the new york trilogy 

of bread. He drank the juice, ate three slices of bread, and then 
returned  to  the  living  room,  where  he  sat  down  in  the  chair 
again. Fifteen minutes later he heard footsteps coming up the 
stairs,  a  jangling  of  keys  outside  the  door,  and  then  the  girl 
from the photograph entered the apartment. She was wearing 
a white  nurse’s  uniform  and  held  a  brown  grocery  bag  in 
her arms.  When  she  saw  Quinn,  she  dropped  the  bag  and 
screamed. Or else she screamed ﬁrst and then dropped the bag. 
Quinn could never be sure which. The bag ripped open when it 
hit the ﬂoor, and milk gurgled in a white path toward the edge 
of the rug. 

Quinn stood up, raised his hand in a gesture of peace, and 
told her not to worry. He wasn’t going to hurt her. The only 
thing he wanted to know was why she was living in his apart-
ment. He took the key from his pocket and held it up in the air, 
as if to prove his good intentions. It took him a while to con-
vince her, but at last her panic subsided. 

That did not mean she had begun to trust him or that she was 
any  less  afraid.  She  hung  by  the  open  door,  ready  to  make  a 
dash for it at the ﬁrst sign of trouble. Quinn held his distance, 
not wanting to make things worse. His mouth kept talking, ex-
plaining again and again that she was living in his house. She 
clearly did not believe one word of it, but she listened in order 
to humor him, no doubt hoping that he would talk himself out 
and ﬁnally leave. 

“I’ve been living here for a month,” she said. “It’s my apart-

ment. I signed a year’s lease.” 

“But why do I have the key?” Quinn asked for the seventh or 

eighth time. “Doesn’t that convince you?” 

“There are hundreds of ways you could have got that key.” 
“Didn’t they tell you there was someone living here when you 

rented the place?” 

“They said it was a writer. But he disappeared, hadn’t paid 

his rent in months.” 

“That’s me!” shouted Quinn. “I’m the writer!” 
The  girl  looked  him  over  coldly  and  laughed.  “A  writer? 
That’s the funniest thing I ever heard. Just look at you. I’ve never 
seen a bigger mess in all my life.” 

city of glass 

123 

“I’ve had some difﬁculties lately,” muttered Quinn, by way 

of explanation. “But it’s only temporary.” 

“The landlord told me he was glad to get rid of you anyway. 
He doesn’t like tenants who don’t have jobs. They use too much 
heat and run down the ﬁxtures.” 

“Do you know what happened to my things?” 
“What things?” 
“My books. My furniture. My papers.” 
“I  have  no  idea.  They  probably  sold  what  they  could  and 
threw  the  rest  away.  Everything  was  cleared  out  before  I 
moved in.” 

Quinn let out a deep sigh. He had come to the end of himself. 
He could feel it now, as though a great truth had ﬁnally dawned 
in him. There was nothing left. 

“Do you realize what this means?” he asked. 
“Frankly, I don’t care,” the girl said. “It’s your problem, not 
mine. I just want you to get out of here. Right now. This is my 
place, and I want you out. If you don’t leave, I’m going to call 
the police and have you arrested.” 

It didn’t matter anymore. He could stand there arguing with 
the  girl  for  the  rest  of  the  day,  and  still  he  wouldn’t  get  his 
apartment back. It was gone, he was gone, everything was gone. 
He stammered something inaudible, excused himself for taking 
up her time, and walked past her out the door. 

13 

Because  it  no  longer  mattered  to  him  what  happened,  Quinn 
was  not  surprised  that  the  front  door  at  69th  Street  opened 
without a key. Nor was he surprised when he reached the ninth 
ﬂoor and walked down the corridor to the Stillmans’ apartment 
that that door should be open as well. Least of all did it surprise 
him to ﬁnd the apartment empty. The place had been stripped 
bare, and the rooms now held nothing. Each one was identical 
to every other: a wooden ﬂoor and four white walls. This made 
no particular impression on Quinn. He was exhausted, and the 
only thing he could think of was closing his eyes. 

He went to one of the rooms at the back of the apartment, a 
small space that measured no more than ten feet by six feet. It 
had one wire-mesh window that gave on to a view of the air-
shaft, and of all the rooms it seemed to be the darkest. Within 
this room there was a second door, which led to a windowless 
cubicle  that  contained  a  toilet  and  a  sink.  Quinn  put  the  red 
notebook on the ﬂoor, removed the deaf mute’s pen from his 
pocket, and tossed it onto the red notebook. Then he took off 
his watch and put it in his pocket. After that he took off all his 
clothes,  opened  the  window,  and  one  by  one  dropped  each 
thing down the airshaft: ﬁrst his right shoe, then his left shoe; 
one sock, then the other sock; his shirt, his jacket, his under-
pants, his pants. He did not look out to watch them fall, nor did 
he check to see where they landed. Then he closed the window, 
lay down in the center of the ﬂoor, and went to sleep. 

It was dark in the room when he woke up. Quinn could not 
be sure how much time had passed—whether it was the night of 
that  day  or  the  night  of  the  next.  It  was  even  possible,  he 

city of glass 

125 

thought, that it was not night at all. Perhaps it was merely dark 
inside the room, and outside, beyond the window, the sun was 
shining. For several moments he considered getting up and go-
ing to the window to see, but then he decided it did not matter. 
If  it  was  not  night  now,  he  thought,  then  night  would  come 
later. That was certain, and whether he looked out the window 
or not, the answer would be the same. On the other hand, if it 
was  in  fact  night  here  in  New  York,  then  surely  the  sun  was 
shining somewhere else. In China, for example, it was no doubt 
mid-afternoon, and the rice farmers were mopping sweat from 
their brows. Night and day were no more than relative terms; 
they did not refer to an absolute condition. At any given mo-
ment, it was always both. The only reason we did not know it 
was because we could not be in two places at the same time. 

Quinn also considered getting up and going to another room, 
but then he realized that he was quite happy where he was. It 
was comfortable here in the spot he had chosen, and he found 
that he enjoyed lying on his back with his eyes open, looking up 
at  the  ceiling—or  what  would  have  been  the  ceiling,  had  he 
been able to see it. Only one thing was lacking for him, and that 
was the sky. He realized that he missed having it overhead, after 
so many days and nights spent in the open. But he was inside 
now, and no matter what room he chose to camp in, the sky 
would remain hidden, inaccessible even at the farthest limit of 
sight. 

He  thought  he  would  stay  there  until  he  no  longer  could. 
There would be water from the sink to quench his thirst, and 
that would buy him some time. Eventually, he would get hun-
gry and have to eat. But he had been working for so long now 
at wanting so little that he knew this moment was still several 
days off. He decided not to think about it until he had to. There 
was  no  sense  in  worrying,  he  thought,  no  sense  in  troubling 
himself with things that did not matter. 

He tried to think about the life he had lived before the story 
began. This caused many difﬁculties, for it seemed so remote to 
him now. He remembered the books he had written under the 
name  of  William  Wilson.  It  was  strange,  he  thought,  that  he 
had done that, and he wondered now why he had. In his heart, 

126 

the new york trilogy 

he realized that Max Work was dead. He had died somewhere 
on the way to his next case, and Quinn could not bring himself 
to  feel  sorry.  It  all  seemed  so  unimportant  now.  He  thought 
back  to  his  desk  and  the  thousands  of  words  he  had  written 
there. He thought back to the man who had been his agent and 
realized he could not remember his name. So many things were 
disappearing now, it was difﬁcult to keep track of them. Quinn 
tried to work his way through the Mets’ lineup, position by po-
sition, but his mind was beginning to wander. The centerﬁelder, 
he remembered, was Mookie Wilson, a promising young player 
whose real name was William Wilson. Surely there was some-
thing  interesting  in  that.  Quinn  pursued  the  idea  for  a  few 
moments but then abandoned it. The two William Wilsons can-
celled each other out, and that was all. Quinn waved good-bye 
to them in his mind. The Mets would ﬁnish in last place again, 
and no one would suffer. 

The next time he woke up, the sun was shining in the room. 
There was a tray of food beside him on the ﬂoor, the dishes 
steaming with what looked like a roast beef dinner. Quinn ac-
cepted this fact without protest. He was neither surprised nor 
disturbed by it. Yes, he said to himself, it is perfectly possible 
that food should have been left here for me. He was not curi-
ous to know how or why this had taken place. It did not even 
occur to him to leave the room to look through the rest of the 
apartment for an answer. Rather, he examined the food on the 
tray more closely and saw that in addition to two large slices 
of roast beef there were seven little roast potatoes, a plate of 
asparagus,  a  fresh  roll,  a  salad,  a  carafe  of  red  wine,  and 
wedges  of  cheese  and  a  pear  for  dessert.  There  was  a  white 
linen  napkin,  and  the  silverware  was  of  the  ﬁnest  quality. 
Quinn ate the food—or half of it, which was as much as he 
could manage. 

After  his  meal,  he  began  to  write  in  the  red  notebook.  He 
continued writing until darkness returned to the room. There 
was  a  small  light  ﬁxture  in  the  middle  of  the  ceiling  and  a 
switch for it by the door, but the thought of using it did not ap-
peal to Quinn. Not long after that he fell asleep again. When he 
woke up, there was sunlight in the room and another tray of 

city of glass 

127 

food beside him on the ﬂoor. He ate what he could of the food 
and then went back to writing in the red notebook. 

For  the  most  part  his  entries  from  this  period  consisted  of 
marginal questions concerning the Stillman case. Quinn won-
dered,  for  example,  why  he  had  not  bothered  to  look  up  the 
newspaper reports of Stillman’s arrest in 1969. He examined the 
problem of whether the moon landing of that same year had been 
connected in any way with what had happened. He asked himself 
why he had taken Auster’s word for it that Stillman was dead. 
He tried to think about eggs and wrote out such phrases as “a 
good egg,” “egg on his face,” “to lay an egg,” “to be as like as 
two eggs.” He wondered what would have happened if he had 
followed the second Stillman instead of the ﬁrst. He asked him-
self why Christopher, the patron saint of travel, had been de-
canonized by the Pope in 1969, just at the time of the trip to the 
moon. He thought through the question of why Don Quixote 
had not simply wanted to write books like the ones he loved— 
instead of living out their adventures. He wondered why he had 
the same initials as Don Quixote. He considered whether the 
girl who had moved into his apartment was the same girl he had 
seen in Grand Central Station reading his book. He wondered if 
Virginia Stillman had hired another detective after he failed to 
get  in  touch  with  her.  He  asked  himself  why  he  had  taken 
Auster’s  word  for  it  that  the  check  had  bounced.  He  thought 
about Peter Stillman and wondered if he had ever slept in the 
room he was in now. He wondered if the case was really over or 
if he was not somehow still working on it. He wondered what 
the map would look like of all the steps he had taken in his life 
and what word it would spell. 

When it was dark, Quinn slept, and when it was light he ate 
the food and wrote in the red notebook. He could never be sure 
how much time passed during each interval, for he did not con-
cern himself with counting the days or the hours. It seemed to 
him, however, that little by little the darkness had begun to win 
out over the light, that whereas in the beginning there had been 
a  predominance  of  sunshine,  the  light  had  gradually  become 
fainter and more ﬂeeting. At ﬁrst, he attributed this to a change 
of season. The equinox had surely passed already, and perhaps 

128 

the new york trilogy 

the solstice was approaching. But even after winter had come 
and the process should theoretically have started to reverse it-
self, Quinn observed that the periods of dark nevertheless kept 
gaining on the periods of light. It seemed to him that he had less 
and  less  time  to  eat  his  food  and  write  in  the  red  notebook. 
Eventually,  it  seemed  to  him  that  these  periods  had  been  re-
duced to a matter of minutes. Once, for example, he ﬁnished 
his  food  and  discovered  that  there  was  only  enough  time  to 
write three sentences in the red notebook. The next time there 
was  light,  he  could  only  manage  two  sentences.  He  began  to 
skip his meals in order to devote himself to the red notebook, 
eating only when he felt he could no longer hold out. But the 
time  continued  to  diminish,  and  soon  he  was  able  to  eat  no 
more than a bite or two before the darkness came back. He did 
not think of turning on the electric light, for he had long ago 
forgotten it was there. 

This  period  of  growing  darkness  coincided  with  the  dwin-
dling of pages in the red notebook. Little by little, Quinn was 
coming to the end. At a certain point, he realized that the more 
he wrote, the sooner the time would come when he could no 
longer write anything. He began to weigh his words with great 
care, struggling to express himself as economically and clearly 
as possible. He regretted having wasted so many pages at the 
beginning of the red notebook, and in fact felt sorry that he had 
bothered to write about the Stillman case at all. For the case was 
far behind him now, and he no longer bothered to think about 
it.  It  had  been  a  bridge  to  another  place  in  his  life,  and  now 
that he  had  crossed  it,  its  meaning  had  been  lost.  Quinn  no 
longer had any interest in himself. He wrote about the stars, the 
earth, his hopes for mankind. He felt that his words had been 
severed from him, that now they were a part of the world at 
large, as real and speciﬁc as a stone, or a lake, or a ﬂower. They 
no  longer  had  anything  to  do  with  him.  He  remembered  the 
moment of his birth and how he had been pulled gently from 
his mother’s womb. He remembered the inﬁnite kindnesses of 
the world and all the people he had ever loved. Nothing mat-
tered now but the beauty of all this. He wanted to go on writ-
ing about it, and it pained him to know that this would not be 

city of glass 

129 

possible. Nevertheless, he tried to face the end of the red note-
book with courage. He wondered if he had it in him to write 
without  a  pen,  if  he  could  learn  to  speak  instead,  ﬁlling  the 
darkness with his voice, speaking the words into the air, into 
the walls, into the city, even if the light never came back again. 
The last sentence of the red notebook reads: “What will hap-

pen when there are no more pages in the red notebook?” 

At this point the story grows obscure. The information has run 
out, and the events that follow this last sentence will never be 
known. It would be foolish even to hazard a guess. 

I  returned  home  from  my  trip  to  Africa  in  February,  just 
hours before a snowstorm began to fall on New York. I called 
my friend Auster that evening, and he urged me to come over to 
see him as soon as I could. There was something so insistent in 
his voice that I dared not refuse, even though I was exhausted. 
At his apartment, Auster explained to me what little he knew 
about Quinn, and then he went on to describe the strange case 
he  had  accidentally  become  involved  in.  He  had  become  ob-
sessed by it, he said, and he wanted my advice about what he 
should do. Having heard him out, I began to feel angry that he 
had treated Quinn with such indifference. I scolded him for not 
having taken a greater part in events, for not having done some-
thing to help a man who was so obviously in trouble. 

Auster seemed to take my words to heart. In fact, he said, 
that was why he had asked me over. He had been feeling guilty 
and needed to unburden himself. He said that I was the only 
person he could trust. 

He  had  spent  the  last  several  months  trying  to  track  down 
Quinn, but with no success. Quinn was no longer living in his 
apartment,  and  all  attempts  to  reach  Virginia  Stillman  had 
failed. It was then that I suggested that we take a look at the 
Stillman apartment. Somehow, I had an intuition that this was 
where Quinn had wound up. 

We put on our coats, went outside, and took a cab to East 
69th Street. The snow had been falling for an hour, and already 
the roads were treacherous. We had little trouble getting into 
the building—slipping through the door with one of the tenants 

130 

the new york trilogy 

who  was  just  coming  home.  We  went  upstairs  and  found  the 
door  to  what  had  once  been  the  Stillmans’  apartment.  It  was 
unlocked. We stepped in cautiously and discovered a series of 
bare,  empty  rooms.  In  a  small  room  at  the  back,  impeccably 
clean as all the other rooms were, the red notebook was lying 
on the ﬂoor. Auster picked it up, looked through it brieﬂy, and 
said that it was Quinn’s. Then he handed it to me and said that 
I should keep it. The whole business had upset him so much 
that he was afraid to keep it himself. I said that I would hold on 
to it until he was ready to read it, but he shook his head and 
told  me  that  he  never  wanted  to  see  it  again.  Then  we  left 
and walked  out  into  the  snow.  The  city  was  entirely  white 
now, and the snow kept falling, as though it would never end. 

As for Quinn, it is impossible for me to say where he is now. 
I have followed the red notebook as closely as I could, and any 
inaccuracies in the story should be blamed on me. There were 
moments  when  the  text  was  difﬁcult  to  decipher,  but  I  have 
done my best with it and have refrained from any interpreta-
tion. The red notebook, of course, is only half the story, as any 
sensitive reader will understand. As for Auster, I am convinced 
that he behaved badly throughout. If our friendship has ended, 
he has only himself to blame. As for me, my thoughts remain 
with Quinn. He will be with me always. And wherever he may 
have disappeared to, I wish him luck. 

(1981–1982) 

First of all there is Blue. Later there is White, and then there is 
Black, and before the beginning there is Brown. Brown broke 
him  in,  Brown  taught  him  the  ropes,  and  when  Brown  grew 
old, Blue took over. That is how it begins. The place is New 
York, the time is the present, and neither one will ever change. 
Blue goes to his ofﬁce every day and sits at his desk, waiting for 
something to happen. For a long time nothing does, and then a 
man named White walks through the door, and that is how it 
begins. 

The case seems simple enough. White wants Blue to follow a 
man named Black and to keep an eye on him for as long as nec-
essary. While working for Brown, Blue did many tail jobs, and 
this one seems no different, perhaps even easier than most. 

Blue needs the work, and so he listens to White and doesn’t 
ask many questions. He assumes it’s a marriage case and that 
White is a jealous husband. White doesn’t elaborate. He wants 
a weekly report, he says, sent to such and such a postbox num-
ber,  typed  out  in  duplicate  on  pages  so  long  and  so  wide.  A 
check will be sent each week to Blue in the mail. White then 
tells  Blue  where  Black  lives,  what  he  looks  like,  and  so  on. 
When Blue asks White how long he thinks the case will last, 
White says he doesn’t know. Just keep sending the reports, he 
says, until further notice. 

To be fair to Blue, he ﬁnds it all a little strange. But to say 
that he has misgivings at this point would be going too far. Still, 
it’s impossible for him not to notice certain things about White. 
The black beard, for example, and the overly bushy eyebrows. 
And then there is the skin, which seems inordinately white, as 

134 

the new york trilogy 

though covered with powder. Blue is no amateur in the art of 
disguise, and it’s not difﬁcult for him to see through this one. 
Brown was his teacher, after all, and in his day Brown was the 
best in the business. So Blue begins to think he was wrong, that 
the case has nothing to do with marriage. But he gets no farther 
than this, for White is still speaking to him, and Blue must con-
centrate on following his words. 

Everything  has  been  arranged,  White  says.  There’s  a  small 
apartment directly across the street from Black’s. I’ve already 
rented it, and you can move in there today. The rent will be paid 
for until the case is over. 

Good idea, says Blue, taking the key from White. That will 

eliminate the legwork. 

Exactly, White answers, stroking his beard. 
And so it’s settled. Blue agrees to take the job, and they shake 
hands on it. To show his good faith, White even gives Blue an 
advance of ten ﬁfty-dollar bills. 

That is how it begins, then. The young Blue and a man named 
White, who is obviously not the man he appears to be. It doesn’t 
matter, Blue says to himself after White has left. I’m sure he has 
his reasons. And besides, it’s not my problem. The only thing I 
have to worry about is doing my job. 

It is February 3, 1947. Little does Blue know, of course, that 
the case will go on for years. But the present is no less dark than 
the past, and its mystery is equal to anything the future might 
hold. Such is the way of the world: one step at a time, one word 
and  then  the  next.  There  are  certain  things  that  Blue  cannot 
possibly know at this point. For knowledge comes slowly, and 
when it comes, it is often at great personal expense. 

White leaves the ofﬁce, and a moment later Blue picks up the 
phone  and  calls  the  future  Mrs.  Blue.  I’m  going  under  cover, 
he tells his sweetheart. Don’t worry if I’m out of touch for a lit-
tle while. I’ll be thinking of you the whole time. 

Blue  takes  a  small  gray  satchel  down  from  the  shelf  and 
packs it with his thirty-eight, a pair of binoculars, a notebook, 
and other tools of the trade. Then he tidies his desk, puts his 
papers in order, and locks up the ofﬁce. From there he goes to 
the  apartment  that  White  has  rented  for  him.  The  address  is 

ghosts 

135 

unimportant. But let’s say Brooklyn Heights, for the sake of ar-
gument.  Some  quiet,  rarely  traveled  street  not  far  from  the 
bridge—Orange Street perhaps. Walt Whitman handset the ﬁrst 
edition  of  Leaves  of  Grass  on  this  street  in  1855,  and  it  was 
here that Henry Ward Beecher railed against slavery from the 
pulpit of his red-brick church. So much for local color. 

It’s a small studio apartment on the third ﬂoor of a four-story 
brownstone. Blue is happy to see that it’s fully equipped, and as 
he walks around the room inspecting the furnishings, he discov-
ers that everything in the place is new: the bed, the table, the 
chair, the rug, the linens, the kitchen supplies, everything. There 
is  a  complete  set  of  clothes  hanging  in  the  closet,  and  Blue, 
wondering if the clothes are meant for him, tries them on and 
sees that they ﬁt. It’s not the biggest place I’ve ever been in, he 
says to himself, pacing from one end of the room to the other, 
but it’s cozy enough, cozy enough. 

He goes back outside, crosses the street, and enters the oppo-
site building. In the entryway he searches for Black’s name on 
one of the mailboxes and ﬁnds it: Black—3rd ﬂoor. So far so 
good. Then he returns to his room and gets down to business. 
Parting  the  curtains  of  the  window,  he  looks  out  and  sees 
Black sitting at a table in his room across the street. To the ex-
tent that Blue can make out what is happening, he gathers that 
Black is writing. A look through the binoculars conﬁrms that 
he is. The lenses, however, are not powerful enough to pick up 
the  writing  itself,  and  even  if  they  were,  Blue  doubts  that  he 
would be able to read the handwriting upside down. All he can 
say for certain, therefore, is that Black is writing in a notebook 
with a red fountain pen. Blue takes out his own notebook and 
writes: Feb. 3, 3 p.m. Black writing at his desk. 

Now  and  then  Black  pauses  in  his  work  and  gazes  out  the 
window. At one point, Blue thinks that he is looking directly at 
him and ducks out of the way. But on closer inspection he real-
izes  that  it  is  merely  a  blank  stare,  signifying  thought  rather 
than seeing, a look that makes things invisible, that does not let 
them in. Black gets up from his chair every once in a while and 
disappears  to  a  hidden  spot  in  the  room,  a  corner  Blue  sup-
poses, or perhaps the bathroom, but he is never gone for very 

136 

the new york trilogy 

long, always returning promptly to the desk. This goes on for 
several hours, and Blue is none the wiser for his efforts. At six 
o’clock  he  writes  the  second  sentence  in  his  notebook:  This 
goes on for several hours. 

It’s not so much that Blue is bored, but that he feels thwarted. 
Without being able to read what Black has written, everything 
is a blank so far. Perhaps he’s a madman, Blue thinks, plotting 
to blow up the world. Perhaps that writing has something to do 
with  his  secret  formula.  But  Blue  is  immediately  embarrassed 
by such a childish notion. It’s too early to know anything, he 
says to himself, and for the time being he decides to suspend 
judgment. 

His mind wanders from one small thing to another, eventu-
ally settling on the future Mrs. Blue. They were planning to go 
out  tonight,  he  remembers,  and  if  it  hadn’t  been  for  White 
showing up at the ofﬁce today and this new case, he would be 
with  her  now.  First  the  Chinese  restaurant  on  39th  Street, 
where they would have wrestled with the chopsticks and held 
hands under the table, and then the double feature at the Para-
mount. For a brief moment he has a startlingly clear picture of 
her face in his mind (laughing with lowered eyes, feigning em-
barrassment),  and  he  realizes  that  he  would  much  rather  be 
with  her  than  sitting  in  this  little  room  for  God  knows  how 
long. He thinks about calling her up on the phone for a chat, 
hesitates, and then decides against it. He doesn’t want to seem 
weak. If she knew how much he needed her, he would begin to 
lose his advantage, and that wouldn’t be good. The man must 
always be the stronger one. 

Black has now cleared his table and replaced the writing ma-
terials with dinner. He sits there chewing slowly, staring out the 
window in that abstracted way of his. At the sight of food, Blue 
realizes that he is hungry and hunts through the kitchen cabinet 
for something to eat. He settles on a meal of canned stew and 
soaks up the gravy with a slice of white bread. After dinner he 
has some hope that Black will be going outside, and he is en-
couraged  when  he  sees  a  sudden  ﬂurry  of  activity  in  Black’s 
room. But all comes to nothing. Fifteen minutes later, Black is 
sitting at his desk again, this time reading a book. A lamp is on 

ghosts 

137 

beside him, and Blue has a clearer view of Black’s face than be-
fore. Blue estimates Black’s age to be the same as his, give or 
take a year or two. That is to say, somewhere in his late twen-
ties or early thirties. He ﬁnds Black’s face pleasant enough, with 
nothing to distinguish it from a thousand other faces one sees 
every day. This is a disappointment to Blue, for he is still se-
cretly hoping to discover that Black is a madman. Blue looks 
through the binoculars and reads the title of the book that Black 
is  reading.  Walden,  by  Henry  David  Thoreau.  Blue  has  never 
heard of it before and writes it down carefully in his notebook. 
So it goes for the rest of the evening, with Black reading and 
Blue watching him read. As time passes, Blue grows more and 
more  discouraged.  He’s  not  used  to  sitting  around  like  this, 
and with the darkness closing in on him now, it’s beginning to 
get on his nerves. He likes to be up and about, moving from one 
place  to  another,  doing  things.  I’m  not  the  Sherlock  Holmes 
type, he would say to Brown, whenever the boss gave him a par-
ticularly sedentary task. Give me something I can sink my teeth 
into. Now, when he himself is the boss, this is what he gets: a 
case with nothing to do. For to watch someone read and write 
is in effect to do nothing. The only way for Blue to have a sense 
of what is happening is to be inside Black’s mind, to see what 
he is thinking, and that of course is impossible. Little by little, 
therefore, Blue lets his own mind drift back to the old days. He 
thinks  of  Brown  and  some  of  the  cases  they  worked  on  to-
gether, savoring the memory of their triumphs. There was the 
Redman Affair, for example, in which they tracked down the 
bank teller who had embezzled a quarter of a million dollars. 
For that one Blue pretended to be a bookie and lured Redman 
into placing a bet with him. The money was traced back to the 
bills missing from the bank, and the man got what was coming 
to him. Even better was the Gray Case. Gray had been missing 
for over a year, and his wife was ready to give him up for dead. 
Blue  searched  through  all  the  normal  channels  and  came  up 
empty. Then, one day, as he was about to ﬁle his ﬁnal report, he 
stumbled on Gray in a bar, not two blocks from where the wife 
was sitting, convinced he would never return. Gray’s name was 
now Green, but Blue knew it was Gray in spite of this, for he 

138 

the new york trilogy 

had  been  carrying  around  a  photograph  of  the  man  for  the 
past three months and knew his face by heart. It turned out to 
be amnesia. Blue took Gray back to his wife, and although he 
didn’t  remember  her  and  continued  to  call  himself  Green, 
he found her to his liking and some days later proposed mar-
riage. So Mrs. Gray became Mrs. Green, married to the same 
man  a  second  time,  and  while  Gray  never  remembered  the 
past—and  stubbornly  refused  to  admit  that  he  had  forgotten 
anything—that did not seem to stop him from living comfort-
ably in the present. Whereas Gray had worked as an engineer in 
his former life, as Green he now kept the job as bartender in the 
bar two blocks away. He liked mixing the drinks, he said, and 
talking to the people who came in, and he couldn’t imagine do-
ing anything else. I was born to be a bartender, he announced to 
Brown and Blue at the wedding party, and who were they to 
object to what a man chose to do with his life? 

Those were the good old days, Blue says to himself now, as 
he watches Black turn off the light in his room across the street. 
Full of strange twists and amusing coincidences. Well, not every 
case can be exciting. You’ve got to take the good with the bad. 
Blue,  ever  the  optimist,  wakes  up  the  next  morning  in  a 
cheerful mood. Outside, snow is falling on the quiet street, and 
everything  has  turned  white.  After  watching  Black  eat  his 
breakfast at the table by the window and read a few more pages 
of Walden, Blue sees him retreat to the back of the room and 
then return to the window dressed in his overcoat. The time is 
shortly after eight o’clock. Blue reaches for his hat, his coat, his 
mufﬂer, and boots, hastily scrambles into them, and gets down-
stairs to the street less than a minute after Black. It is a windless 
morning,  so  still  that  he  can  hear  the  snow  falling  on  the 
branches of the trees. No one else is about, and Black’s shoes 
have made a perfect set of tracks on the white pavement. Blue 
follows the tracks around the corner and then sees Black am-
bling down the next street, as if enjoying the weather. Not the 
behavior  of  a  man  about  to  escape,  Blue  thinks,  and  accord-
ingly he slows his pace. Two streets later, Black enters a small 
grocery store, stays ten or twelve minutes, and then comes out 
with two heavily loaded brown paper bags. Without noticing 

ghosts 

139 

Blue, who is standing in a doorway across the street, he begins 
retracing his steps towards Orange Street. Stocking up for the 
storm,  Blue  says  to  himself.  Blue  then  decides  to  risk  losing 
contact  with  Black  and  goes  into  the  store  himself  to  do  the 
same. Unless it’s a decoy, he thinks, and Black is planning to 
dump  the  groceries  and  take  off,  it’s  fairly  certain  that  he’s 
on his way home. Blue therefore does his own shopping, stops 
in  next  door  to  buy  a  newspaper  and  several  magazines,  and 
then returns to his room on Orange Street. Sure enough, Black 
is already at his desk by the window, writing in the same note-
book as the day before. 

Because of the snow, visibility is poor, and Blue has trouble 
deciphering what is happening in Black’s room. Even the binoc-
ulars don’t help much. The day remains dark, and through the 
endlessly  falling  snow,  Black  appears  to  be  no  more  than  a 
shadow.  Blue  resigns  himself  to  a  long  wait  and  then  settles 
down  with  his  newspapers  and  magazines.  He  is  a  devoted 
reader of True Detective and tries never to miss a month. Now, 
with time on his hands, he reads the new issue thoroughly, even 
pausing  to  read  the  little  notices  and  ads  on  the  back  pages. 
Buried  among  the  feature  stories  on  gangbusters  and  secret 
agents, there is one short article that strikes a chord in Blue, and 
even after he ﬁnishes the magazine, he ﬁnds it difﬁcult not to 
keep  thinking  about  it.  Twenty-ﬁve  years  ago,  it  seems,  in  a 
patch  of  woods  outside  Philadelphia,  a  little  boy  was  found 
murdered.  Although  the  police  promptly  began  work  on  the 
case, they never managed to come up with any clues. Not only 
did they have no suspects, they could not even identify the boy. 
Who he was, where he had come from, why he was there—all 
these questions remained unanswered. Eventually, the case was 
dropped from the active ﬁle, and if not for the coroner who had 
been assigned to do the autopsy on the boy, it would have been 
forgotten altogether. This man, whose name was Gold, became 
obsessed by the murder. Before the child was buried, he made a 
death mask of his face, and from then on devoted whatever time 
he could to the mystery. After twenty years, he reached retire-
ment  age,  left  his  job,  and  began  spending  every  moment  on 
the case.  But  things  did  not  go  well.  He  made  no  headway, 

140 

the new york trilogy 

came not one step closer to solving the crime. The article in True 
Detective  describes  how  he  is  now  offering  a  reward  of  two 
thousand dollars to anyone who can provide information about 
the little boy. It also includes a grainy, retouched photograph of 
the man holding the death mask in his hands. The look in his 
eyes is so haunted and imploring that Blue can scarcely turn his 
own eyes away. Gold is growing old now, and he is afraid that 
he will die before he solves the case. Blue is deeply moved by 
this. If it were possible, he would like nothing better than to 
drop what he’s doing and try to help Gold. There aren’t enough 
men  like  that,  he  thinks.  If  the  boy  were  Gold’s  son,  then  it 
would make sense: revenge, pure and simple, and anyone can 
understand that. But the boy was a complete stranger to him, 
and so there’s nothing personal about it, no hint of a secret mo-
tive. It is this thought that so affects Blue. Gold refuses to ac-
cept  a  world  in  which  the  murderer  of  a  child  can  go 
unpunished, even if the murderer himself is now dead, and he is 
willing  to  sacriﬁce  his  own  life  and  happiness  to  right  the 
wrong. Blue then thinks about the little boy for a while, trying 
to imagine what really happened, trying to feel what the boy 
must  have  felt,  and  then  it  dawns  on  him  that  the  murderer 
must have been one of the parents, for otherwise the boy would 
have been reported as missing. That only makes it worse, Blue 
thinks, and as he begins to grow sick at the thought of it, fully 
understanding now what Gold must feel all the time, he realizes 
that twenty-ﬁve years ago he too was a little boy and that had 
the boy lived he would be Blue’s age now. It could have been 
me, Blue thinks. I could have been that little boy. Not knowing 
what else to do, he cuts out the picture from the magazine and 
tacks it onto the wall above his bed. 

So it goes for the ﬁrst days. Blue watches Black, and little of 
anything happens. Black writes, reads, eats, takes brief strolls 
through  the  neighborhood,  seems  not  to  notice  that  Blue  is 
there. As for Blue, he tries not to worry. He assumes that Black 
is lying low, biding his time until the right moment comes. Since 
Blue is only one man, he realizes that constant vigilance is not 
expected  of  him.  After  all,  you  can’t  watch  someone  twenty-
four hours a day. There has to be time for you to sleep, to eat, 

ghosts 

141 

to  do  your  laundry,  and  so  on.  If  White  wanted  Black  to  be 
watched around the clock, he would have hired two or three 
men, not one. But Blue is only one, and more than what is pos-
sible he cannot do. 

Still, he does begin to worry, in spite of what he tells himself. 
For if Black must be watched, then it would follow that he must 
be  watched  every  hour  of  every  day.  Anything  less  than  con-
stant surveillance would be as no surveillance at all. It would 
not take much, Blue reasons, for the entire picture to change. A 
single  moment’s  inattention—a  glance  to  the  side  of  him,  a 
pause to scratch his head, the merest yawn—and presto, Black 
slips away and commits whatever heinous act he is planning to 
commit. And yet, there will necessarily be such moments, hun-
dreds  and  even  thousands  of  them  every  day.  Blue  ﬁnds  this 
troubling, for no matter how often he turns this problem over 
inside himself, he gets no closer to solving it. But that is not the 
only thing that troubles him. 

Until now, Blue has not had much chance for sitting still, and 
this new idleness has left him at something of a loss. For the 
ﬁrst time in his life, he ﬁnds that he has been thrown back on 
himself,  with  nothing  to  grab  hold  of,  nothing  to  distinguish 
one moment from the next. He has never given much thought to 
the world inside him, and though he always knew it was there, 
it  has  remained  an  unknown  quantity,  unexplored  and  there-
fore dark, even to himself. He has moved rapidly along the sur-
face  of  things  for  as  long  as  he  can  remember,  ﬁxing  his 
attention on these surfaces only in order to perceive them, siz-
ing up one and then passing on to the next, and he has always 
taken pleasure in the world as such, asking no more of things 
than that they be there. And until now they have been, etched 
vividly against the daylight, distinctly telling him what they are, 
so perfectly themselves and nothing else that he has never had 
to  pause  before  them  or  look  twice.  Now,  suddenly,  with  the 
world as it were removed from him, with nothing much to see 
but a vague shadow by the name of Black, he ﬁnds himself think-
ing about things that have never occurred to him before, and this, 
too, has begun to trouble him. If thinking is perhaps too strong a 
word  at  this  point,  a  slightly  more  modest  term—speculation, 

142 

the new york trilogy 

for example—would not be far from the mark. To speculate, 
from the Latin speculatus, meaning to spy out, to observe, and 
linked to the word speculum, meaning mirror or looking glass. 
For in spying out at Black across the street, it is as though Blue 
were looking into a mirror, and instead of merely watching an-
other, he ﬁnds that he is also watching himself. Life has slowed 
down so drastically for him that Blue is now able to see things 
that have previously escaped his attention. The trajectory of the 
light that passes through the room each day, for example, and 
the way the sun at certain hours will reﬂect the snow on the far 
corner of the ceiling in his room. The beating of his heart, the 
sound of his breath, the blinking of his eyes—Blue is now aware 
of these tiny events, and try as he might to ignore them, they 
persist in his mind like a nonsensical phrase repeated over and 
over again. He knows it cannot be true, and yet little by little 
this phrase seems to be taking on a meaning. 

Of Black, of White, of the job he has been hired to do, Blue 
now begins to advance certain theories. More than just helping 
to pass the time, he discovers that making up stories can be a 
pleasure in itself. He thinks that perhaps White and Black are 
brothers and that a large sum of money is at stake—an inheri-
tance, for example, or the capital invested in a partnership. Per-
haps White wants to prove that Black is incompetent, have him 
committed to an institution, and take control of the family for-
tune himself. But Black is too clever for that and has gone into 
hiding, waiting for the pressure to ease up. Another theory that 
Blue puts forward has White and Black as rivals, both of them 
racing toward the same goal—the solution to a scientiﬁc prob-
lem, for example—and White wants Black watched in order to 
be sure he isn’t outsmarted. Still another story has it that White 
is a renegade agent from the F.B.I. or some espionage organiza-
tion, perhaps foreign, and has struck out on his own to conduct 
some peripheral investigation not necessarily sanctioned by his 
superiors. By hiring Blue to do his work for him, he can keep 
the surveillance of Black a secret and at the same time continue 
to perform his normal duties. Day by day, the list of these sto-
ries  grows,  with  Blue  sometimes  returning  in  his  mind  to  an 
early  story  to  add  certain  ﬂourishes  and  details  and  at  other 

ghosts 

143 

times  starting  over  again  with  something  new.  Murder  plots, 
for instance, and kidnapping schemes for giant ransoms. As the 
days go on, Blue realizes there is no end to the stories he can 
tell. For Black is no more than a kind of blankness, a hole in the 
texture of things, and one story can ﬁll this hole as well as any 
other. 

Blue  does  not  mince  words,  however.  He  knows  that  more 
than anything else he would like to learn the real story. But at 
this early stage he also knows that patience is called for. Bit by 
bit, therefore, he begins to dig in, and with each day that passes 
he ﬁnds himself a little more comfortable with his situation, a 
little more resigned to the fact that he is in for the long haul. 

Unfortunately, thoughts of the future Mrs. Blue occasionally 
disturb his growing peace of mind. Blue misses her more than 
ever, but he also senses somehow that things will never be the 
same again. Where this feeling comes from he cannot tell. But 
while  he  feels  reasonably  content  whenever  he  conﬁnes  his 
thoughts to Black, to his room, to the case he is working on, 
whenever  the  future  Mrs.  Blue  enters  his  consciousness,  he  is 
seized by a kind of panic. All of a sudden, his calm turns to an-
guish, and he feels as though he is falling into some dark, cave-
like place, with no hope of ﬁnding a way out. Nearly every day 
he has been tempted to pick up the phone and call her, thinking 
that perhaps a moment of real contact would break the spell. 
But the days pass, and still he doesn’t call. This, too, is troubling 
to him, for he cannot remember a time in his life when he has 
been so reluctant to do a thing he so clearly wants to do. I’m 
changing, he says to himself. Little by little, I’m no longer the 
same. This interpretation reassures him somewhat, at least for a 
while, but in the end it only leaves him feeling stranger than be-
fore. The days pass, and it becomes difﬁcult for him not to keep 
seeing pictures of the future Mrs. Blue in his head, especially at 
night, and there in the darkness of his room, lying on his back 
with his eyes open, he reconstructs her body piece by piece, be-
ginning with her feet and ankles, working his way up her legs 
and along her thighs, climbing from her belly toward her breasts, 
and then, roaming happily among the softness, dipping down 
to her buttocks and then up again along her back, at last ﬁnding 

144 

the new york trilogy 

her  neck  and  curling  forward  to  her  round  and  smiling  face. 
What is she doing now? he sometimes asks himself. And what 
does she think of all this? But he can never come up with a sat-
isfactory answer. If he is able to invent a multitude of stories to 
ﬁt the facts concerning Black, with the future Mrs. Blue all is si-
lence, confusion, and emptiness. 

The day comes for him to write his ﬁrst report. Blue is an old 
hand at such compositions and has never had any trouble with 
them. His method is to stick to outward facts, describing events 
as though each word tallied exactly with the thing described, 
and to question the matter no further. Words are transparent 
for him, great windows that stand between him and the world, 
and  until  now  they  have  never  impeded  his  view,  have  never 
even seemed to be there. Oh, there are moments when the glass 
gets a triﬂe smudged and Blue has to polish it in one spot or an-
other, but once he ﬁnds the right word, everything clears up. 
Drawing on the entries he has made previously in his notebook, 
sifting through them to refresh his memory and to underscore 
pertinent  remarks,  he  tries  to  fashion  a  coherent  whole,  dis-
carding the slack and embellishing the gist. In every report he 
has written so far, action holds forth over interpretation. For 
example:  The  subject  walked  from  Columbus  Circle  to 
Carnegie  Hall.  No  references  to  the  weather,  no  mention  of 
the trafﬁc, no stab at trying to guess what the subject might be 
thinking.  The  report  conﬁnes  itself  to  known  and  veriﬁable 
facts, and beyond this limit it does not try to go. 

Faced with the facts of the Black case, however, Blue grows 
aware of his predicament. There is the notebook, of course, but 
when he looks through it to see what he has written, he is dis-
appointed  to  ﬁnd  such  paucity  of  detail.  It’s  as  though  his 
words,  instead  of  drawing  out  the  facts  and  making  them  sit 
palpably in the world, have induced them to disappear. This has 
never happened to Blue before. He looks out across the street 
and sees Black sitting at his desk as usual. Black, too, is looking 
through the window at that moment, and it suddenly occurs to 
Blue  that  he  can  no  longer  depend  on  the  old  procedures. 
Clues, legwork, investigative routine—none of this is going to 
matter anymore. But then, when he tries to imagine what will 

ghosts 

145 

replace these things, he gets nowhere. At this point, Blue can 
only surmise what the case is not. To say what it is, however, is 
completely beyond him. 

Blue sets his typewriter on the table and casts about for ideas, 
trying to apply himself to the task at hand. He thinks that per-
haps a truthful account of the past week would include the var-
ious stories he has made up for himself concerning Black. With 
so little else to report, these excursions into the make-believe 
would at least give some ﬂavor of what has happened. But Blue 
brings himself up short, realizing that they have nothing really 
to do with Black. This isn’t the story of my life, after all, he 
says. I’m supposed to be writing about him, not myself. 

Still, it looms as a perverse temptation, and Blue must strug-
gle with himself for some time before ﬁghting it off. He goes 
back to the beginning and works his way through the case, step 
by step. Determined to do exactly what has been asked of him, 
he painstakingly composes the report in the old style, tackling 
each detail with such care and aggravating precision that many 
hours go by before he manages to ﬁnish. As he reads over the 
results,  he  is  forced  to  admit  that  everything  seems  accurate. 
But then why does he feel so dissatisﬁed, so troubled by what he 
has  written?  He  says  to  himself:  what  happened  is  not  really 
what happened. For the ﬁrst time in his experience of writing 
reports, he discovers that words do not necessarily work, that it 
is possible for them to obscure the things they are trying to say. 
Blue looks around the room and ﬁxes his attention on various 
objects, one after the other. He sees the lamp and says to him-
self, lamp. He sees the bed and says to himself, bed. He sees the 
notebook and says to himself, notebook. It will not do to call 
the lamp a bed, he thinks, or the bed a lamp. No, these words 
ﬁt  snugly  around  the  things  they  stand  for,  and  the  moment 
Blue speaks them, he feels a deep satisfaction, as though he has 
just proved the existence of the world. Then he looks out across 
the street and sees Black’s window. It is dark now, and Black 
is asleep.  That’s  the  problem,  Blue  says  to  himself,  trying  to 
ﬁnd a little courage. That and nothing else. He’s there, but it’s 
impossible  to  see  him.  And  even  when  I  do  see  him  it’s  as 
though the lights are out. 

146 

the new york trilogy 

He seals up his report in an envelope and goes outside, walks 
to the corner, and drops it into the mailbox. I may not be the 
smartest person in the world, he says to himself, but I’m doing 
my best, I’m doing my best. 

After that, the snow begins to melt. The next morning, the sun 
is shining brightly, clusters of sparrows are chirping in the trees, 
and Blue can hear the pleasant dripping of water from the edge of 
the roof, the branches, the lampposts. Spring suddenly does not 
seem far away. Another few weeks, he says to himself, and every 
morning will be like this one. 

Black takes advantage of the weather to wander farther aﬁeld 
than previously, and Blue follows. Blue is relieved to be moving 
again, and as Black continues on his way, Blue hopes the jour-
ney will not end before he’s had a chance to work out the kinks. 
As one would imagine, he has always been an ardent walker, 
and to feel his legs striding along through the morning air ﬁlls 
him with happiness. As they move through the narrow streets of 
Brooklyn Heights, Blue is encouraged to see that Black keeps in-
creasing his distance from home. But then, his mood suddenly 
darkens.  Black  begins  to  climb  the  staircase  that  leads  to  the 
walkway across the Brooklyn Bridge, and Blue gets it into his 
head that he’s planning to jump. Such things happen, he tells 
himself. A man goes to the top of the bridge, gives a last look to 
the world through the wind and the clouds, and then leaps out 
over  the  water,  bones  cracking  on  impact,  his  body  broken 
apart. Blue gags on the image, tells himself to stay alert. If any-
thing starts to happen, he decides, he will step out from his role 
as neutral bystander and intervene. For he does not want Black 
to be dead—at least not yet. 

It  has  been  many  years  since  Blue  crossed  the  Brooklyn 
Bridge on foot. The last time was with his father when he was a 
boy, and the memory of that day comes back to him now. He 
can  see  himself  holding  his  father’s  hand  and  walking  at  his 
side, and as he hears the trafﬁc moving along the steel bridge-
road below, he can remember telling his father that the noise 
sounded like the buzzing of an enormous swarm of bees. To his 
left is the Statue of Liberty; to his right is Manhattan, the build-
ings so tall in the morning sun they seem to be ﬁgments. His 

ghosts 

147 

father was a great one for facts, and he told Blue the stories of 
all the monuments and skyscrapers, vast litanies of detail—the 
architects,  the  dates,  the  political  intrigues—and  how  at  one 
time the Brooklyn Bridge was the tallest structure in America. 
The old man was born the same year the bridge was ﬁnished, 
and  there  was  always  that  link  in  Blue’s  mind,  as  though  the 
bridge  were  somehow  a  monument  to  his  father.  He  liked 
the story  he  was  told  that  day  as  he  and  Blue  Senior  walked 
home  over  the  same  wooden  planks  he  was  walking  on  now, 
and for some reason he never forgot it. How John Roebling, the 
designer of the bridge, got his foot crushed between the dock 
pilings and a ferry boat just days after ﬁnishing the plans and 
died from gangrene in less than three weeks. He didn’t have to 
die, Blue’s father said, but the only treatment he would accept 
was hydrotherapy, and that proved useless, and Blue was struck 
that a man who had spent his life building bridges over bodies 
of water so that people wouldn’t get wet should believe that the 
only  true  medicine  consisted  in  immersing  oneself  in  water. 
After John Roebling’s death, his son Washington took over as 
chief engineer, and that was another curious story. Washington 
Roebling was just thirty-one at the time, with no building expe-
rience  except  for  the  wooden  bridges  he  designed  during  the 
Civil  War,  but  he  proved  to  be  even  more  brilliant  than  his 
father.  Not  long  after  construction  began  on  the  Brooklyn 
Bridge, however, he was trapped for several hours during a ﬁre 
in one of the underwater caissons and came out of it with a se-
vere case of the bends, an excruciating disease in which nitro-
gen  bubbles  gather  in  the  bloodstream.  Nearly  killed  by  the 
attack, he was thereafter an invalid, unable to leave the top ﬂoor 
room where he and his wife set up house in Brooklyn Heights. 
There  Washington  Roebling  sat  every  day  for  many  years, 
watching the progress of the bridge through a telescope, send-
ing his wife down every morning with his instructions, drawing 
elaborate color pictures for the foreign workers who spoke no 
English so they would understand what to do next, and the re-
markable  thing  was  that  the  whole  bridge  was  literally  in  his 
head: every piece of it had been memorized, down to the tiniest 
bits of steel and stone, and though Washington Roebling never 

148 

the new york trilogy 

set  foot  on  the  bridge,  it  was  totally  present  inside  him,  as 
though by the end of all those years it had somehow grown into 
his body. 

Blue thinks of this now as he makes his way across the river, 
watching Black ahead of him and remembering his father and 
his boyhood out in Gravesend. The old man was a cop, later a 
detective at the 77th precinct, and life would have been good, 
Blue thinks, if it hadn’t been for the Russo Case and the bullet 
that went through his father’s brain in 1927. Twenty years ago, 
he  says  to  himself,  suddenly  appalled  by  the  time  that  has 
passed, wondering if there is a heaven, and if so whether or not 
he will get to see his father again after he dies. He remembers a 
story from one of the endless magazines he has read this week, 
a new monthly called Stranger than Fiction, and it seems some-
how to follow from all the other thoughts that have just come 
to him. Somewhere in the French Alps, he recalls, a man was 
lost skiing twenty or twenty-ﬁve years ago, swallowed up by an 
avalanche, and his body was never recovered. His son, who was 
a little boy at the time, grew up and also became a skier. One 
day in the past year he went skiing, not far from the spot where 
his  father  was  lost—although  he  did  not  know  this.  Through 
the minute and persistent displacements of the ice over the de-
cades since his father’s death, the terrain was now completely 
different from what it had been. All alone there in the moun-
tains, miles away from any other human being, the son chanced 
upon a body in the ice—a dead body, perfectly intact, as though 
preserved in suspended animation. Needless to say, the young 
man stopped to examine it, and as he bent down and looked at 
the face of the corpse, he had the distinct and terrifying impres-
sion that he was looking at himself. Trembling with fear, as the 
article  put  it,  he  inspected  the  body  more  closely,  all  sealed 
away as it was in the ice, like someone on the other side of a 
thick window, and saw that it was his father. The dead man was 
still young, even younger than his son was now, and there was 
something awesome about it, Blue felt, something so odd and 
terrible about being older than your own father, that he actually 
had to ﬁght back tears as he read the article. Now, as he nears 
the end of the bridge, these same feelings come back to him, 

ghosts 

149 

and he wishes to God that his father could be there, walking 
over the river and telling him stories. Then, suddenly aware of 
what his mind is doing, he wonders why he has turned so senti-
mental, why all these thoughts keep coming to him, when for 
so many years they have never even occurred to him. It’s all part 
of  it,  he  thinks,  embarrassed  at  himself  for  being  like  this. 
That’s what happens when you have no one to talk to. 

He comes to the end and sees that he was wrong about Black. 
There will be no suicides today, no jumping from bridges, no 
leaps into the unknown. For there goes his man, as blithe and 
unperturbed  as  anyone  can  be,  descending  the  stairs  of  the 
walkway and traveling along the street that curves around City 
Hall,  then  moving  north  along  Centre  Street  past  the  court-
house and other municipal buildings, never once slackening his 
pace, continuing on through Chinatown and beyond. These di-
vagations last several hours, and at no point does Blue have the 
sense that Black is walking to any purpose. He seems rather to 
be airing his lungs, walking for the pure pleasure of walking, 
and as the journey goes on Blue confesses to himself for the ﬁrst 
time that he is developing a certain fondness for Black. 

At one point Black enters a bookstore and Blue follows him 
in. There Black browses for half an hour or so, accumulating a 
small pile of books in the process, and Blue, with nothing bet-
ter to do, browses as well, all the while trying to keep his face 
hidden  from  Black.  The  little  glances  he  takes  when  Black 
seems not to be looking give him the feeling that he has seen 
Black before, but he can’t remember where. There’s something 
about the eyes, he says to himself, but that’s as far as he gets, 
not wanting to call attention to himself and not really sure if 
there’s anything to it. 

A  minute  later,  Blue  comes  across  a  copy  of  Walden  by 
Henry David Thoreau. Flipping through the pages, he is sur-
prised to discover that the name of the publisher is Black: “Pub-
lished for the Classics Club by Walter J. Black, Inc., Copyright 
1942.” Blue is momentarily jarred by this coincidence, thinking 
that perhaps there is some message in it for him, some glimpse 
of meaning that could make a difference. But then, recovering 
from  the  jolt,  he  begins  to  think  not.  It’s  a  common  enough 

150 

the new york trilogy 

name, he says to himself—and besides, he knows for a fact that 
Black’s name is not Walter. Could be a relative though, he adds, 
or maybe even his father. Still turning this last point over in his 
mind, Blue decides to buy the book. If he can’t read what Black 
writes, at least he can read what he reads. A long shot, he says 
to himself, but who knows that it won’t give some hint of what 
the man is up to. 

So far so good. Black pays for his books, Blue pays for his 
book, and the walk continues. Blue keeps looking for some pat-
tern to emerge, for some clue to drop in his path that will lead 
him to Black’s secret. But Blue is too honest a man to delude 
himself,  and  he  knows  that  no  rhyme  or  reason  can  be  read 
into  anything  that’s  happened  so  far.  For  once,  he  is  not  dis-
couraged by this. In fact, as he probes more deeply into him-
self, he realizes that on the whole he feels rather invigorated by 
it. There is something nice about being in the dark, he discov-
ers,  something  thrilling  about  not  knowing  what  is  going  to 
happen next. It keeps you alert, he thinks, and there’s no harm 
in that, is there? Wide awake and on your toes, taking it all in, 
ready for anything. 

A few moments after thinking this thought, Blue is ﬁnally of-
fered a new development, and the case takes on its ﬁrst twist. 
Black  turns  a  corner  in  midtown,  walks  halfway  down  the 
block,  hesitates  brieﬂy,  as  if  searching  for  an  address,  back-
tracks a few paces, moves on again, and several seconds later 
enters a restaurant. Blue follows him in, thinking nothing much 
of it, since it’s lunchtime after all, and people have to eat, but it 
does  not  escape  him  that  Black’s  hesitation  seems  to  indicate 
that he’s never been here before, which in turn might mean that 
Black  has  an  appointment.  It’s  a  dark  place  inside,  fairly 
crowded,  with  a  group  of  people  clustered  around  the  bar  in 
front, lots of chatter and the clinking of silverware and plates in 
the  background.  It  looks  expensive,  Blue  thinks,  with  wood 
paneling on the walls and white tablecloths, and he decides to 
keep  his  bill  as  low  as  he  can.  Tables  are  available,  and  Blue 
takes  it  as  a  good  omen  when  he  is  seated  within  eyeshot  of 
Black, not obtrusively close, but not so far as not to be able to 
watch  what  he  does.  Black  tips  his  hand  by  asking  for  two 

ghosts 

151 

menus, and three or four minutes later breaks into a smile when 
a woman walks across the room, approaches Black’s table, and 
kisses him on the cheek before sitting down. The woman’s not 
bad, Blue thinks. A bit on the lean side for his taste, but not bad 
at all. Then he thinks: now the interesting part begins. 

Unfortunately,  the  woman’s  back  is  turned  to  Blue,  so  he 
can’t watch her face as the meal progresses. As he sits there eat-
ing his Salisbury steak, he thinks that maybe his ﬁrst hunch was 
the right one, that it’s a marriage case after all. Blue is already 
imagining the kinds of things he will write in his next report, 
and it gives him pleasure to contemplate the phrases he will use 
to describe what he is seeing now. By having another person in 
the case, he knows that certain decisions have to be made. For 
example: should he stick with Black or divert his attention to 
the woman? This could possibly accelerate matters a bit, but at 
the  same  time  it  could  mean  that  Black  would  be  given  the 
chance  to  slip  away  from  him,  perhaps  for  good.  In  other 
words, is the meeting with the woman a smoke-screen or the 
real thing? Is it a part of the case or not, is it an essential or con-
tingent fact? Blue ponders these questions for a while and con-
cludes that it’s too early to tell. Yes, it could be one thing, he 
tells himself. But it could also be another. 

About midway through the meal, things seem to take a turn 
for the worse. Blue detects a look of great sadness in Black’s 
face, and before he knows it the woman seems to be crying. At 
least that is what he can gather from the sudden change in the 
position of her body: her shoulders slumped, her head leaning 
forward,  her  face  perhaps  covered  by  her  hands,  the  slight 
shuddering along her back. It could be a ﬁt of laughter, Blue 
reasons, but then why would Black be so miserable? It looks as 
though the ground has just been cut out from under him. A mo-
ment  later,  the  woman  turns  her  face  away  from  Black,  and 
Blue gets a glimpse of her in proﬁle: tears without question, he 
thinks, as he watches her dab her eyes with a napkin and sees a 
smudge of wet mascara glistening on her cheek. She stands up 
abruptly  and  walks  off  in  the  direction  of  the  ladies’  room. 
Again Blue has an unobstructed view of Black, and seeing that 
sadness in his face, that look of absolute dejection, he almost 

152 

the new york trilogy 

begins to feel sorry for him. Black glances in Blue’s direction, 
but clearly he’s not seeing anything, and then, an instant later, 
he buries his face in his hands. Blue tries to guess what is hap-
pening, but it’s impossible to know. It looks like it’s over be-
tween  them,  he  thinks,  it  has  the  feeling  of  something  that’s 
come to an end. And yet, for all that, it could just be a tiff. 

The woman returns to the table looking a little better, and 
then the two of them sit there for a few minutes without saying 
anything,  leaving  their  food  untouched.  Black  sighs  once  or 
twice,  looking  off  into  the  distance,  and  ﬁnally  calls  for  the 
check. Blue does the same and then follows the two of them out 
of the restaurant. He notes that Black has his hand on her el-
bow, but that could just be a reﬂex he tells himself, and proba-
bly means nothing. They walk down the street in silence, and at 
the corner Black waves down a cab. He opens the door for the 
woman, and before she climbs in he touches her very gently on 
the cheek. She gives him a brave little smile in return, but still 
they  don’t  say  a  word.  Then  she  sits  down  in  the  back  seat, 
Black shuts the door, and the cab takes off. 

Black  walks  around  for  a  few  minutes,  pausing  brieﬂy  in 
front of a travel agency window to study a poster of the White 
Mountains, and then climbs into a cab himself. Blue gets lucky 
again and manages to ﬁnd another cab just seconds later. He 
tells the driver to follow Black’s cab and then sits back as the 
two  yellow  cars  make  their  way  slowly  through  the  trafﬁc 
downtown, across the Brooklyn Bridge, and ﬁnally to Orange 
Street. Blue is shocked by the fare and kicks himself mentally 
for not following the woman instead. He should have known 
that Black was going home. 

His mood brightens considerably when he enters his building 
and ﬁnds a letter in his mailbox. It can only be one thing, he 
tells himself, and sure enough, as he walks upstairs and opens the 
envelope, there it is: the ﬁrst check, a postal money order for 
the exact amount settled on with White. He ﬁnds it a bit per-
plexing,  however,  that  the  method  of  payment  should  be  so 
anonymous. Why not a personal check from White? This leads 
Blue to toy with the thought that White is a renegade agent af-
ter all, eager to cover his tracks and therefore making sure there 

ghosts 

153 

will be no record of the payments. Then, removing his hat and 
overcoat and stretching out on the bed, Blue realizes that he’s a 
little disappointed not to have had some comment about the re-
port. Considering how hard he struggled to get it right, a word 
of encouragement would have been welcomed. The fact that the 
money  was  sent  means  that  White  was  not  dissatisﬁed.  But 
still—silence  is  not  a  rewarding  response,  no  matter  what  it 
means. If that’s the way it is, Blue says to himself, I’ll just have 
to get used to it. 

The  days  go  by,  and  once  again  things  settle  down  to  the 
barest of routines. Black writes, reads, shops in the neighbor-
hood,  visits  the  post  ofﬁce,  takes  an  occasional  stroll.  The 
woman does not reappear, and Black makes no further excur-
sions to Manhattan. Blue begins to think that any day he will 
get a letter telling him the case is closed. The woman is gone, he 
reasons, and that could be the end of it. But nothing of the sort 
happens. Blue’s meticulous description of the scene in the restau-
rant  draws  no  special  response  from  White,  and  week  after 
week the checks continue to arrive on time. So much for love, 
Blue  says  to  himself.  The  woman  never  meant  anything.  She 
was just a diversion. 

In  this  early  period,  Blue’s  state  of  mind  can  best  be  de-
scribed as one of ambivalence and conﬂict. There are moments 
when he feels so completely in harmony with Black, so natu-
rally at one with the other man, that to anticipate what Black is 
going to do, to know when he will stay in his room and when 
he will go out, he need merely look into himself. Whole days go 
by when he doesn’t even bother to look through the window or 
follow  Black  onto  the  street.  Now  and  then,  he  even  allows 
himself to make solo expeditions, knowing full well that during 
the time he is gone Black will not have budged from his spot. 
How he knows this remains something of a mystery to him, but 
the fact is that he is never wrong, and when the feeling comes 
over him, he is beyond all doubt and hesitation. On the other 
hand, not all moments are like these. There are times when he 
feels totally removed from Black, cut off from him in a way that 
is so stark and absolute that he begins to lose the sense of who 
he is. Loneliness envelops him, shuts him in, and with it comes 

154 

the new york trilogy 

a terror worse than anything he has ever known. It puzzles him 
that he should switch so rapidly from one state to another, and 
for a long time he goes back and forth between extremes, not 
knowing which one is true and which one false. 

After a stretch of particularly bad days, he begins to long for 
some companionship. He sits down and writes a detailed letter 
to Brown, outlining the case and asking for his advice. Brown 
has retired to Florida, where he spends most of his time ﬁshing, 
and Blue knows that it will take quite a while before he receives 
an answer. Still, the day after he mails the letter, he begins look-
ing forward to the reply with an eagerness that soon grows to 
obsession. Each morning, about an hour before the mail is de-
livered, he plants himself by the window, watching for the post-
man  to  round  the  corner  and  come  into  view,  pinning  all  his 
hopes  on  what  Brown  will  say  to  him.  What  he  is  expecting 
from this letter is not certain. Blue does not even ask the ques-
tion,  but  surely  it  is  something  monumental,  some  luminous 
and extraordinary words that will bring him back to the world 
of the living. 

As the days and weeks go by without any letter from Brown, 
Blue’s disappointment grows into an aching, irrational despera-
tion. But that is nothing compared to what he feels when the 
letter ﬁnally comes. For Brown does not even address himself to 
what Blue wrote. It’s good to hear from you, the letter begins, 
and good to know you’re working so hard. Sounds like an in-
teresting case. Can’t say I miss any of it, though. Here it’s the 
good life for me—get up early and ﬁsh, spend some time with 
the  wife,  read  a  little,  sleep  in  the  sun,  nothing  to  complain 
about. The only thing I don’t understand is why I didn’t move 
down here years ago. 

The letter goes on in that vein for several pages, never once 
broaching  the  subject  of  Blue’s  torments  and  anxieties.  Blue 
feels betrayed by the man who was once like a father to him, 
and when he ﬁnishes the letter he feels empty, the stufﬁng all 
knocked out of him. I’m on my own, he thinks, there’s no one 
to  turn  to  anymore.  This  is  followed  by  several  hours  of  de-
spondency and self-pity, with Blue thinking once or twice that 
maybe he’d be better off dead. But eventually he works his way 

ghosts 

155 

out of the gloom. For Blue is a solid character on the whole, less 
given  to  dark  thoughts  than  most,  and  if  there  are  moments 
when he feels the world is a foul place, who are we to blame 
him for it? By the time supper rolls around, he has even begun 
to look on the bright side. This is perhaps his greatest talent: 
not that he does not despair, but that he never despairs for very 
long. It might be a good thing after all, he says to himself. It 
might be better to stand alone than to depend on anyone else. 
Blue  thinks  about  this  for  a  while  and  decides  there  is  some-
thing to be said for it. He is no longer an apprentice. There is 
no  master  above  him  anymore.  I’m  my  own  man,  he  says  to 
himself. I’m my own man, accountable to no one but myself. 

Inspired by this new approach to things, he discovers that he 
has at last found the courage to contact the future Mrs. Blue. 
But when he picks up the phone and dials her number, there is 
no answer. This is a disappointment, but he remains undaunted. 
I’ll try again some other time, he says. Some time soon. 

The days continue to pass. Once again, Blue falls into step 
with  Black,  perhaps  even  more  harmoniously  than  before.  In 
doing so, he discovers the inherent paradox of his situation. For 
the closer he feels to Black, the less he ﬁnds it necessary to think 
about him. In other words, the more deeply entangled he be-
comes, the freer he is. What bogs him down is not involvement 
but separation. For it is only when Black seems to drift away 
from him that he must go out looking for him, and this takes 
time  and  effort,  not  to  speak  of  struggle.  At  those  moments 
when he feels closest to Black, however, he can even begin to 
lead the semblance of an independent life. At ﬁrst he is not very 
daring in what he allows himself to do, but even so he considers 
it a kind of triumph, almost an act of bravery. Going outside, 
for example, and walking up and down the block. Small as it 
might be, this gesture ﬁlls him with happiness, and as he moves 
back and forth along Orange Street in the lovely spring weather, 
he is glad to be alive in a way he has not felt in years. At one 
end there is a view of the river, the harbor, the Manhattan sky-
line, the bridges. Blue ﬁnds all this beautiful, and on some days 
he even allows himself to sit for several minutes on one of the 
benches and look out at the boats. In the other direction there is 

156 

the new york trilogy 

the church, and sometimes Blue goes to the small grassy yard to 
sit  for  a  while,  studying  the  bronze  statue  of  Henry  Ward 
Beecher. Two slaves are holding on to Beecher’s legs, as though 
begging him to help them, to make them free at last, and in the 
brick wall behind there is a porcelain relief of Abraham Lin-
coln. Blue cannot help but feel inspired by these images, and 
each time he comes to the churchyard his head ﬁlls with noble 
thoughts about the dignity of man. 

Little by little, he becomes more bold in his strayings from 
Black. It is 1947, the year that Jackie Robinson breaks in with 
the Dodgers, and Blue follows his progress closely, remember-
ing the churchyard and knowing there is more to it than just 
baseball. One bright Tuesday afternoon in May, he decides to 
make an excursion to Ebbets Field, and as he leaves Black be-
hind in his room on Orange Street, hunched over his desk as 
usual with his pen and papers, he feels no cause for worry, se-
cure in the fact that everything will be exactly the same when 
he returns. He rides the subway, rubs shoulders with the crowd, 
feels  himself  lunging  towards  a  sense  of  the  moment.  As  he 
takes his seat at the ball park, he is struck by the sharp clarity 
of the colors around him: the green grass, the brown dirt, the 
white ball, the blue sky above. Each thing is distinct from every 
other  thing,  wholly  separate  and  deﬁned,  and  the  geometric 
simplicity of the pattern impresses Blue with its force. Watch-
ing the game, he ﬁnds it difﬁcult to take his eyes off Robinson, 
lured  constantly  by  the  blackness  of  the  man’s  face,  and  he 
thinks it must take courage to do what he is doing, to be alone 
like that in front of so many strangers, with half of them no 
doubt wishing him to be dead. As the game moves along, Blue 
ﬁnds himself cheering whatever Robinson does, and when the 
black man steals a base in the third inning he rises to his feet, 
and later, in the seventh, when Robinson doubles off the wall in 
left, he actually pounds the back of the man next to him for 
joy. The Dodgers pull it out in the ninth with a sacriﬁce ﬂy, and 
as Blue shufﬂes off with the rest of the crowd and makes his 
way home, it occurs to him that Black did not cross his mind 
even once. 

ghosts 

157 

But  ball  games  are  only  the  beginning.  On  certain  nights, 
when it is clear to Blue that Black will not be going anywhere, 
he slips out to a bar not far away for a beer or two, enjoying 
the conversations he sometimes has with the bartender, whose 
name is Red, and who bears an uncanny resemblance to Green, 
the bartender from the Gray Case so long ago. A blowsy tart 
named Violet is often there, and once or twice Blue gets her tipsy 
enough to get invited back to her place around the corner. He 
knows that she likes him well enough because she never makes 
him pay for it, but he also knows that it has nothing to do with 
love. She calls him honey and her ﬂesh is soft and ample, but 
whenever she has one drink too many she begins to cry, and then 
Blue has to console her, and he secretly wonders if it’s worth the 
trouble. His guilt towards the future Mrs. Blue is scant, however, 
for he justiﬁes these sessions with Violet by comparing himself 
to a soldier at war in another country. Every man needs a little 
comfort,  especially  when  his  number  could  be  up  tomorrow. 
And besides, he isn’t made of stone, he says to himself. 

More often than not, however, Blue will bypass the bar and 
go to the movie theater several blocks away. With summer com-
ing on now and the heat beginning to hover uncomfortably in 
his little room, it’s refreshing to be able to sit in the cool theater 
and  watch  the  feature  show.  Blue  is  fond  of  the  movies,  not 
only for the stories they tell and the beautiful women he can see 
in them, but for the darkness of the theater itself, the way the 
pictures on the screen are somehow like the thoughts inside his 
head whenever he closes his eyes. He is more or less indifferent 
to the kinds of movies he sees, whether comedies or dramas, for 
example, or whether the ﬁlm is shot in black and white or in 
color, but he has a particular weakness for movies about detec-
tives,  since  there  is  a  natural  connection,  and  he  is  always 
gripped by these stories more than by others. During this period 
he sees a number of such movies and enjoys them all: Lady in 
the Lake, Fallen Angel, Dark Passage, Body and Soul, Ride the 
Pink Horse, Desperate, and so on. But for Blue there is one that 
stands out from the rest, and he likes it so much that he actually 
goes back the next night to see it again. 

158 

the new york trilogy 

It’s called Out of the Past, and it stars Robert Mitchum as an 
ex-private eye who is trying to build a new life for himself in a 
small  town  under  an  assumed  name.  He  has  a  girlfriend,  a 
sweet country girl named Ann, and runs a gas station with the 
help of a deaf-and-dumb boy, Jimmy, who is ﬁrmly devoted to 
him. But the past catches up with Mitchum, and there’s little he 
can do about it. Years ago, he had been hired to look for Jane 
Greer,  the  mistress  of  gangster  Kirk  Douglas,  but  once  he 
found her they fell in love and ran off together to live in secret. 
One  thing  led  to  another—money  was  stolen,  a  murder  was 
committed—and  eventually  Mitchum  came  to  his  senses  and 
left  Greer,  ﬁnally  understanding  the  depth  of  her  corruption. 
Now he is being blackmailed by Douglas and Greer into com-
mitting a crime, which itself is merely a set-up, for once he ﬁg-
ures out what is happening, he sees that they are planning to 
frame  him  for  another  murder.  A  complicated  story  unfolds, 
with Mitchum desperately trying to extricate himself from the 
trap. At one point, he returns to the small town where he lives, 
tells Ann that he’s innocent, and again persuades her of his love. 
But it’s really too late, and Mitchum knows it. Towards the end, 
he manages to convince Douglas to turn in Greer for the mur-
der she committed, but at that moment Greer enters the room, 
calmly takes out a gun, and kills Douglas. She tells Mitchum 
that they belong to each other, and he, fatalistic to the last, ap-
pears to go along. They decide to escape the country together, 
but as Greer goes to pack her bag, Mitchum picks up the phone 
and  calls  the  police.  They  get  into  the  car  and  drive  off,  but 
soon they come to a police roadblock. Greer, seeing that she’s 
been  double-crossed,  pulls  a  gun  from  her  bag  and  shoots 
Mitchum. The police then open ﬁre on the car and Greer is killed 
as  well.  After  that,  there’s  one  last  scene—the  next  morning, 
back  in  the  small  town  of  Bridgeport.  Jimmy  is  sitting  on  a 
bench  outside  the  gas  station,  and  Ann  walks  over  and  sits 
down beside him. Tell me one thing, Jimmy, she says, I’ve got to 
know this one thing: was he running away with her or not? The 
boy thinks for a moment, trying to decide between truth and 
kindness.  Is  it  more  important  to  preserve  his  friend’s  good 
name or to spare the girl? All this happens in no more than an 

ghosts 

159 

instant. Looking into the girl’s eyes, he nods his head, as if to 
say yes, he was in love with Greer after all. Ann pats Jimmy’s 
arm and thanks him, then walks off to her former boyfriend, a 
straight-arrow local policeman who always despised Mitchum. 
Jimmy looks up at the gas station sign with Mitchum’s name on 
it, gives a little salute of friendship, and then turns away and 
walks down the road. He is the only one who knows the truth, 
and he will never tell. 

For the next few days, Blue goes over this story many times in 
his head. It’s a good thing, he decides, that the movie ends with 
the  deaf  mute  boy.  The  secret  is  buried,  and  Mitchum  will 
remain  an  outsider,  even  in  death.  His  ambition  was  simple 
enough:  to  become  a  normal  citizen  in  a  normal  American 
town,  to  marry  the  girl  next  door,  to  live  a  quiet  life.  It’s 
strange, Blue thinks, that the new name Mitchum chooses for 
himself is Jeff Bailey. This is remarkably close to the name of 
another character in a movie he saw the previous year with the 
future Mrs. Blue—George Bailey, played by James Stewart in 
It’s  a  Wonderful  Life.  That  story  was  also  about  small  town 
America, but from the opposite point of view: the frustrations 
of a man who spends his whole life trying to escape. But in the 
end he comes to understand that his life has been a good one, 
that  he  has  done  the  right  thing  all  along.  Mitchum’s  Bailey 
would no doubt like to be the same man as Stewart’s Bailey. But 
in his case the name is false, a product of wishful thinking. His 
real name is Markham—or, as Blue sounds it out to himself, 
mark him—and that is the whole point. He has been marked by 
the past, and once that happens, nothing can be done about it. 
Something happens, Blue thinks, and then it goes on happening 
forever. It can never be changed, can never be otherwise. Blue 
begins to be haunted by this thought, for he sees it as a kind of 
warning, a message delivered up from within himself, and try 
as he does to push it away, the darkness of this thought does not 
leave him. 

One night, therefore, Blue ﬁnally turns to his copy of Walden. 
The time has come, he says to himself, and if he doesn’t make 
an effort now, he knows that he never will. But the book is not 
a simple business. As Blue begins to read, he feels as though he 

160 

the new york trilogy 

is entering an alien world. Trudging through swamps and bram-
bles, hoisting himself up gloomy screes and treacherous cliffs, 
he feels like a prisoner on a forced march, and his only thought 
is to escape. He is bored by Thoreau’s words and ﬁnds it difﬁ-
cult to concentrate. Whole chapters go by, and when he comes 
to the end of them he realizes that he has not retained a thing. 
Why would anyone want to go off and live alone in the woods? 
What’s all this about planting beans and not drinking coffee or 
eating meat? Why all these interminable descriptions of birds? 
Blue thought that he was going to get a story, or at least some-
thing like a story, but this is no more than blather, an endless 
harangue about nothing at all. 

It  would  be  unfair  to  blame  him,  however.  Blue  has  never 
read much of anything except newspapers and magazines, and 
an occasional adventure novel when he was a boy. Even experi-
enced and sophisticated readers have been known to have trou-
ble with Walden, and no less a ﬁgure than Emerson once wrote 
in his journal that reading Thoreau made him feel nervous and 
wretched. To Blue’s credit, he does not give up. The next day he 
begins  again,  and  this  second  go-through  is  somewhat  less 
rocky than the ﬁrst. In the third chapter he comes across a sen-
tence that ﬁnally says something to him—Books must be read 
as deliberately and reservedly as they were written—and sud-
denly he understands that the trick is to go slowly, more slowly 
than he has ever gone with words before. This helps to some ex-
tent,  and  certain  passages  begin  to  grow  clear:  the  business 
about clothes in the beginning, the battle between the red ants 
and the black ants, the argument against work. But Blue still 
ﬁnds it painful, and though he grudgingly admits that Thoreau 
is perhaps not as stupid as he thought, he begins to resent Black 
for putting him through this torture. What he does not know is 
that were he to ﬁnd the patience to read the book in the spirit in 
which it asks to be read, his entire life would begin to change, 
and little by little he would come to a full understanding of his 
situation—that  is  to  say,  of  Black,  of  White,  of  the  case,  of 
everything that concerns him. But lost chances are as much a 
part of life as chances taken, and a story cannot dwell on what 
might have been. Throwing the book aside in disgust, Blue puts 

ghosts 

161 

on his coat (for it is fall now) and goes out for a breath of air. 
Little does he realize that this is the beginning of the end. For 
something is about to happen, and once it happens, nothing will 
ever be the same again. 

He goes to Manhattan, wandering farther from Black than at 
any time before, venting his frustration in movement, hoping to 
calm  himself  down  by  exhausting  his  body.  He  walks  north, 
alone in his thoughts, not bothering to take in the things around 
him. On East 26th Street his left shoelace comes undone, and it 
is precisely then, as he bends down to tie it, crouching on one 
knee,  that  the  sky  falls  on  top  of  him.  For  who  should  he 
glimpse  at  just  that  moment  but  the  future  Mrs.  Blue.  She  is 
coming  up  the  street  with  her  two  arms  linked  through  the 
right arm of a man Blue has never seen before, and she is smil-
ing radiantly, engrossed in what the man is saying to her. For 
several  moments  Blue  is  so  at  a  loss  that  he  doesn’t  know 
whether  to  bend  his  head  farther  down  and  hide  his  face  or 
stand  up  and  greet  the  woman  whom  he  now  understands— 
with a knowledge as sudden and irrevocable as the slamming of 
a  door—will  never  be  his  wife.  As  it  turns  out,  he  manages 
neither—ﬁrst ducking his head, but then discovering a second 
later that he wants her to recognize him, and when he sees she 
will  not,  being  so  wrapped  up  in  her  companion’s  talk,  Blue 
abruptly rises from the pavement when they are no more than 
six feet away from him. It is as though some spectre has sud-
denly materialized in front of her, and the ex–future Mrs. Blue 
gives out a little gasp, even before she sees who the spectre is. 
Blue speaks her name, in a voice that seems strange to him, and 
she stops dead in her tracks. Her face registers the shock of see-
ing  Blue—and  then,  rapidly,  her  expression  turns  to  one  of 
anger. 

You! she says to him. You! 
Before he has a chance to say a word, she disentangles her-
self  from  her  companion’s  arm  and  begins  pounding  Blue’s 
chest with her ﬁsts, screaming insanely at him, accusing him 
of one foul crime after another. It is all Blue can do to repeat 
her name over and over, as though trying desperately to distin-
guish between the woman he loves and the wild beast who is 

162 

the new york trilogy 

now attacking him. He feels totally defenseless, and as the on-
slaught  continues,  he  begins  to  welcome  each  new  blow  as 
just punishment for his behavior. The other man soon puts a 
stop  to  it,  however,  and  though  Blue  is  tempted  to  take  a 
swing at him, he is too stunned to act quickly enough, and be-
fore he knows it the man has led away the weeping ex–future 
Mrs. Blue down the street and around the corner, and that’s 
the end of it. 

This brief scene, so unexpected and devastating, turns Blue 
inside out. By the time he regains his composure and manages 
to return home, he realizes that he has thrown away his life. It’s 
not  her  fault,  he  says  to  himself,  wanting  to  blame  her  but 
knowing he can’t. He might have been dead for all she knew, 
and  how  can  he  hold  it  against  her  for  wanting  to  live?  Blue 
feels  tears  forming  in  his  eyes,  but  more  than  grief  he  feels 
anger  at  himself  for  being  such  a  fool.  He  has  lost  whatever 
chance he might have had for happiness, and if that is the case, 
then it would not be wrong to say that this is truly the begin-
ning of the end. 

Blue gets back to his room on Orange Street, lies down on his 
bed, and tries to weigh the possibilities. Eventually, he turns his 
face to the wall and encounters the photograph of the coroner 
from Philadelphia, Gold. He thinks of the sad blankness of the 
unsolved case, the child lying in his grave with no name, and as 
he studies the death mask of the little boy, he begins to turn an 
idea over in his mind. Perhaps there are ways of getting close to 
Black, he thinks, ways that need not give him away. God knows 
there must be. Moves that can be made, plans that can be set in 
motion—perhaps  two  or  three  at  the  same  time.  Never  mind 
the rest, he tells himself. It’s time to turn the page. 

His next report is due the day after tomorrow, and so he sits 
down to it now in order to get it mailed off on schedule. For the 
past few months his reports have been exceedingly cryptic, no 
more than a paragraph or two, giving the bare bones and noth-
ing  else,  and  this  time  he  does  not  depart  from  the  pattern. 
However,  at  the  bottom  of  the  page  he  interjects  an  obscure 
comment as a kind of test, hoping to elicit something more than 
silence  from  White:  Black  seems  ill.  I’m  afraid  he  might  be 

ghosts 

163 

dying. Then he seals up the report, saying to himself that this is 
only the beginning. 

Two  days  hence,  Blue  hastens  early  in  the  morning  to  the 
Brooklyn Post Ofﬁce, a great castle of a building within eyeshot 
of the Manhattan Bridge. All of Blue’s reports have been ad-
dressed  to  box  number  one  thousand  and  one,  and  he  walks 
over  to  it  now  as  though  by  accident,  sauntering  past  it  and 
unobtrusively  peeking  inside  to  see  if  the  report  has  come.  It 
has. Or at least a letter is there—a solitary white envelope tilted 
at a forty-ﬁve degree angle in the narrow cubby—and Blue has 
no reason to suspect it’s any letter other than his own. He then 
begins a slow circular walk around the area, determined to re-
main  until  White  or  someone  working  for  White  appears,  his 
eyes ﬁxed on the huge wall of numbered boxes, each box with a 
different combination, each one holding a different secret. Peo-
ple come and go, open boxes and close them, and Blue keeps 
wandering in his circle, pausing every now and then in some ran-
dom spot and then moving on. Everything seems brown to him, 
as though the fall weather outside has penetrated the room, and 
the place smells pleasantly of cigar smoke. After several hours he 
begins to get hungry, but he does not give in to the call of his 
stomach, telling himself it’s now or never and therefore holding 
his ground. Blue watches everyone who approaches the bank of 
post boxes, zeroing in on each person who skirts the vicinity of 
one thousand and one, aware of the fact that if it’s not White 
who comes for the reports it could be anyone—an old woman, 
a  young  child,  and  consequently  he  must  take  nothing  for 
granted. But none of these possibilities comes to anything, for 
the box remains untouched throughout, and though Blue mo-
mentarily and successively spins a story for each candidate who 
comes near, trying to imagine how that person might be con-
nected to White and or Black, what role he or she might play in 
the case, and so on, one by one he is forced to dismiss them 
from his mind, casting them back into the oblivion from which 
they have come. 

Just past noon, at a moment when the post ofﬁce begins to 
get crowded—an inﬂux of people on their lunch break rushing 
through to mail letters, buy stamps, attend to business of one 

164 

the new york trilogy 

sort or another—a man with a mask on his face walks through 
the door. Blue doesn’t notice him at ﬁrst, what with so many 
others  coming  through  the  door  at  the  same  time,  but  as  the 
man separates himself from the crowd and begins walking to-
ward the numbered post boxes, Blue ﬁnally catches sight of the 
mask—a  mask  of  the  sort  that  children  wear  on  Halloween, 
made  of  rubber  and  portraying  some  hideous  monster  with 
gashes in his forehead and bleeding eyeballs and fangs for teeth. 
The rest of him is perfectly ordinary (gray tweed overcoat, red 
scarf  wrapped  around  his  neck),  and  Blue  senses  in  this  ﬁrst 
moment that the man behind the mask is White. As the man 
continues  walking  toward  the  area  of  box  one  thousand  and 
one, this sense grows to conviction. At the same time, Blue also 
feels that the man is not really there, that even though he knows 
he is seeing him, it is more than likely that he is the only one 
who  can.  On  this  point,  however,  Blue  is  wrong,  for  as  the 
masked  man  continues  moving  across  the  vast  marble  ﬂoor, 
Blue sees a number of people laughing and pointing at him— 
but whether this is better or worse he cannot say. The masked 
man reaches box one thousand and one, spins the combination 
wheel back and forth and back again, and opens the box. As 
soon as Blue sees that this is deﬁnitely his man, he begins mak-
ing a move toward him, not really sure of what he is planning 
to do, but in the back of his mind no doubt intending to grab 
hold of him and tear the mask off his face. But the man is too 
alert,  and  once  he  has  pocketed  the  envelope  and  locked  the 
box,  he  gives  a  quick  glance  around  the  room,  sees  Blue  ap-
proaching, and makes a dash for it, heading for the door as fast 
as he can. Blue runs after him, hoping to catch him from behind 
and tackle him, but he gets tangled momentarily in a crowd of 
people at the door, and by the time he manages to get through 
it, the masked man is bounding down the stairs, landing on the 
sidewalk, and running down the street. Blue continues in pur-
suit, even feels he is gaining ground, but then the man reaches 
the corner, where a bus just happens to be pulling out from a 
stop, and so he conveniently leaps aboard, and Blue is left in the 
lurch, all out of breath and standing there like an idiot. 

Two  days  later,  when  Blue  receives  his  check  in  the  mail, 

ghosts 

165 

there is ﬁnally a word from White. No more funny business, it 
says, and though it’s not much of a word, for all that Blue is 
glad to have received it, happy to have cracked White’s wall of 
silence at last. It’s not clear to him, however, whether the mes-
sage refers to the last report or to the incident in the post ofﬁce. 
After thinking it over for a while, he decides that it makes no 
difference. One way or another, the key to the case is action. He 
must go on disrupting things wherever he can, a little here, a lit-
tle  there,  chipping  away  at  each  conundrum  until  the  whole 
structure  begins  to  weaken,  until  one  day  the  whole  rotten 
business comes toppling to the ground. 

Over the next few weeks, Blue returns to the post ofﬁce sev-
eral times, hoping to catch another glimpse of White. But noth-
ing comes of it. Either the report is already gone from the box 
when he gets there, or White does not show up. The fact that 
this  area  of  the  post  ofﬁce  is  open  twenty-four  hours  a  day 
leaves Blue with few options. White is on to him now, and he 
will not make the same mistake twice. He will simply wait un-
til Blue is gone before going to the box, and unless Blue is will-
ing to spend his entire life in the post ofﬁce, there’s no way he 
can expect to sneak up on White again. 

The picture is far more complicated than Blue ever imagined. 
For almost a year now, he has thought of himself as essentially 
free.  For  better  or  worse  he  has  been  doing  his  job,  looking 
straight ahead of him and studying Black, waiting for a possible 
opening, trying to stick with it, but through it all he has not 
given a single thought to what might be going on behind him. 
Now, after the incident with the masked man and the further 
obstacles  that  have  ensued,  Blue  no  longer  knows  what  to 
think. It seems perfectly plausible to him that he is also being 
watched, observed by another in the same way that he has been 
observing Black. If that is the case, then he has never been free. 
From the very start he has been the man in the middle, thwarted 
in  front  and  hemmed  in  on  the  rear.  Oddly  enough,  this 
thought reminds him of some sentences from Walden, and he 
searches  through  his  notebook  for  the  exact  phrasing,  fairly 
certain that he has written them down. We are not where we 
are, he ﬁnds, but in a false position. Through an inﬁrmity of 

166 

the new york trilogy 

our natures, we suppose a case, and put ourselves into it, and 
hence are in two cases at the same time, and it is doubly difﬁcult 
to get out. This makes sense to Blue, and though he is beginning 
to feel a little frightened, he thinks that perhaps it is not too late 
for him to do something about it. 

The real problem boils down to identifying the nature of the 
problem itself. To start with, who poses the greater threat to 
him, White or Black? White has kept up his end of the bargain: 
the checks have come on time every week, and to turn against 
him  now,  Blue  knows,  would  be  to  bite  the  hand  that  feeds 
him.  And  yet  White  is  the  one  who  set  the  case  in  motion— 
thrusting Blue into an empty room, as it were, and then turning 
off  the  light  and  locking  the  door.  Ever  since,  Blue  has  been 
groping  about  in  the  darkness,  feeling  blindly  for  the  light 
switch, a prisoner of the case itself. All well and good, but why 
would White do such a thing? When Blue comes up against this 
question, he can no longer think. His brain stops working, he 
can get no farther than this. 

Take Black, then. Until now he has been the entire case, the 
apparent cause of all his troubles. But if White is really out to 
get Blue and not Black, then perhaps Black has nothing to do 
with it, perhaps he is no more than an innocent bystander. In 
that  case,  it  is  Black  who  occupies  the  position  Blue  has  as-
sumed all along to be his, and Blue who takes the role of Black. 
There is something to be said for this. On the other hand, it is 
also  possible  that  Black  is  somehow  working  in  league  with 
White and that together they have conspired to do Blue in. 

If  so,  what  are  they  doing  to  him?  Nothing  very  terrible, 
ﬁnally—at least not in any absolute sense. They have trapped 
Blue into doing nothing, into being so inactive as to reduce his 
life to almost no life at all. Yes, says Blue to himself, that’s what 
it  feels  like:  like  nothing  at  all.  He  feels  like  a  man  who  has 
been condemned to sit in a room and go on reading a book for 
the rest of his life. This is strange enough—to be only half alive 
at  best,  seeing  the  world  only  through  words,  living  only 
through the lives of others. But if the book were an interesting 
one, perhaps it wouldn’t be so bad. He could get caught up in 
the story, so to speak, and little by little begin to forget himself. 

ghosts 

167 

But this book offers him nothing. There is no story, no plot, no 
action—nothing but a man sitting alone in a room and writing 
a book. That’s all there is, Blue realizes, and he no longer wants 
any part of it. But how to get out? How to get out of the room 
that is the book that will go on being written for as long as he 
stays in the room? 

As for Black, the so-called writer of this book, Blue can no 
longer trust what he sees. Is it possible that there really is such 
a  man—who  does  nothing,  who  merely  sits  in  his  room  and 
writes?  Blue  has  followed  him  everywhere,  has  tracked  him 
down into the remotest corners, has watched him so hard that 
his eyes seem to be failing him. Even when he does leave his 
room,  Black  never  goes  anywhere,  never  does  much  of  any-
thing:  grocery  shopping,  an  occasional  haircut,  a  trip  to  the 
movies,  and  so  on.  But  mostly  he  just  wanders  around  the 
streets, looking at odd bits of scenery, clusters of random data, 
and  even  this  happens  only  in  spurts.  For  a  while  it  will  be 
buildings—craning his neck to catch a glimpse of the roofs, in-
specting doorways, running his hands slowly over the stone fa-
cades. And then, for a week or two, it will be public statues, or 
the boats in the river, or the signs in the street. Nothing more 
than  that,  with  scarcely  a  word  to  anyone,  and  no  meetings 
with others except for that one lunch with the woman in tears 
by now so long ago. In one sense, Blue knows everything there 
is to know about Black: what kind of soap he buys, what news-
papers he reads, what clothes he wears, and each of these things 
he  has  faithfully  recorded  in  his  notebook.  He  has  learned  a 
thousand facts, but the only thing they have taught him is that 
he knows nothing. For the fact remains that none of this is pos-
sible. It is not possible for such a man as Black to exist. 

Consequently, Blue begins to suspect that Black is no more 
than a ruse, another one of White’s hirelings, paid by the week 
to sit in that room and do nothing. Perhaps all that writing is 
merely a sham—page after page of it: a list of every name in the 
phone book, for example, or each word from the dictionary in 
alphabetical order, or a handwritten copy of Walden. Or per-
haps they are not even words, but senseless scribbles, random 
marks  of  a  pen,  a  growing  heap  of  nonsense  and  confusion. 

168 

the new york trilogy 

This  would  make  White  the  real  writer  then—and  Black  no 
more than his stand-in, a fake, an actor with no substance of 
his own. Then there are the times, following through with this 
thought, that Blue believes the only logical explanation is that 
Black is not one man but several. Two, three, four look-alikes 
who play the role of Black for Blue’s beneﬁt, each one putting 
in  his  allotted  time  and  then  going  back  to  the  comforts  of 
hearth and home. But this is a thought too monstrous for Blue 
to contemplate for very long. Months go by, and at last he says 
to himself out loud: I can’t breathe anymore. This is the end. 
I’m dying. 

It is midsummer, 1948. Finally mustering the courage to act, 
Blue reaches into his bag of disguises and casts about for a new 
identity. After dismissing several possibilities, he settles on an 
old man who used to beg on the corners of his neighborhood 
when he was a boy—a local character by the name of Jimmy 
Rose—and  decks  himself  out  in  the  garb  of  tramphood:  tat-
tered woolen clothes, shoes held together with string to prevent 
the soles from ﬂapping, a weathered carpetbag to hold his be-
longings, and then, last of all, a ﬂowing white beard and long 
white hair. These ﬁnal details give him the look of an Old Tes-
tament prophet. Blue as Jimmy Rose is not a scrofulous down-
and-outer so much as a wise fool, a saint of penury living in the 
margins of society. A triﬂe daft perhaps, but harmless: he ex-
udes  a  sweet  indifference  to  the  world  around  him,  for  since 
everything  has  happened  to  him  already,  nothing  can  disturb 
him anymore. 

Blue posts himself in a suitable spot across the street, takes a 
fragment of a broken magnifying glass from his pocket, and be-
gins  reading  a  crumpled  day-old  newspaper  that  he  has  sal-
vaged from one of the nearby garbage cans. Two hours later, 
Black appears, walking down the steps of his house and then 
turning  in  Blue’s  direction.  Black  pays  no  attention  to  the 
bum—either  lost  in  his  own  thoughts  or  ignoring  him  on 
purpose—and so as he begins to approach, Blue addresses him 
in a pleasant voice. 

Can you spare some change, mister? 
Black stops, looks over the disheveled creature who has just 

ghosts 

169 

spoken, and gradually relaxes into a smile as he realizes he is 
not in danger. Then he reaches into his pocket, pulls out a coin, 
and puts it in Blue’s hand. 

Here you are, he says. 
God bless you, says Blue. 
Thank you, answers Black, touched by the sentiment. 
Never fear, says Blue. God blesses all. 
And with that word of reassurance, Black tips his hat to Blue 

and continues on his way. 

The next afternoon, once again in bum’s regalia, Blue waits 
for Black in the same spot. Determined to keep the conversation 
going a little longer this time, now that he has won Black’s con-
ﬁdence, Blue ﬁnds that the problem is taken out of his hands 
when Black himself shows an eagerness to linger. It is late in the 
day by now, not yet dusk but no longer afternoon, the twilight 
hour  of  slow  changes,  of  glowing  bricks  and  shadows.  After 
greeting the bum cordially and giving him another coin, Black 
hesitates  a  moment,  as  though  debating  whether  to  take  the 
plunge, and then says: 

Has  anyone  ever  told  you  that  you  look  just  like  Walt 

Whitman? 

Walt who? answers Blue, remembering to play his part. 
Walt Whitman. A famous poet. 
No, says Blue. I can’t say I know him. 
You wouldn’t know him, says Black. He’s not alive anymore. 

But the resemblance is remarkable. 

Well, you know what they say, says Blue. Every man has his 

double somewhere. I don’t see why mine can’t be a dead man. 

The funny thing, continues Black, is that Walt Whitman used 
to work on this street. He printed his ﬁrst book right here, not 
far from where we’re standing. 

You don’t say, says Blue, shaking his head pensively. It makes 

you stop and think, doesn’t it? 

There are some odd stories about Whitman, Black says, ges-
turing to Blue to sit down on the stoop of the building behind 
them, which he does, and then Black does the same, and sud-
denly it’s just the two of them out there in the summer light to-
gether, chatting away like two old friends about this and that. 

170 

the new york trilogy 

Yes, says Black, settling in comfortably to the languor of the 
moment, a number of very curious stories. The one about Whit-
man’s brain, for example. All his life Whitman believed in the 
science  of  phrenology—you  know,  reading  the  bumps  on  the 
skull. It was very popular at the time. 

Can’t say I’ve ever heard of it, replies Blue. 
Well, that doesn’t much matter, says Black. The main thing is 
that  Whitman  was  interested  in  brains  and  skulls—thought 
they could tell you everything about a man’s character. Anyway, 
when Whitman lay dying over there in New Jersey about ﬁfty 
or sixty years ago, he agreed to let them perform an autopsy on 
him after he was dead. 

How could he agree to it after he was dead? 
Ah, good point. I didn’t say it right. He was still alive when 
he agreed. He just wanted them to know that he didn’t mind if 
they opened him up later. What you might call his dying wish. 

Famous last words. 
That’s right. A lot of people thought he was a genius, you see, 
and they wanted to take a look at his brain to ﬁnd out if there 
was anything special about it. So, the day after he died, a doctor 
removed  Whitman’s  brain—cut  it  right  out  of  his  head—and 
had it sent to the American Anthropometric Society to be mea-
sured and weighed. 

Like a giant cauliﬂower, interjects Blue. 
Exactly. Like a big gray vegetable. But this is where the story 
gets interesting. The brain arrives at the laboratory, and just as 
they’re about to get to work on it, one of the assistants drops it 
on the ﬂoor. 

Did it break? 
Of  course  it  broke.  A  brain  isn’t  very  tough,  you  know.  It 
splattered  all  over  the  place,  and  that  was  that.  The  brain  of 
America’s greatest poet got swept up and thrown out with the 
garbage. 

Blue,  remembering  to  respond  in  character,  emits  several 
wheezing laughs—a good imitation of an old codger’s mirth. 
Black laughs, too, and by now the atmosphere has thawed to 
such an extent that no one could ever know they were not life-
long chums. 

ghosts 

171 

It’s sad to think of poor Walt lying in his grave, though, says 

Black. All alone and without any brains. 

Just like that scarecrow, says Blue. 
Sure enough, says Black. Just like the scarecrow in the land 

of Oz. 

After another good laugh, Black says: And then there’s the 
story of the time Thoreau came to visit Whitman. That’s a good 
one, too. 

Was he another poet? 
Not exactly. But a great writer just the same. He’s the one 

who lived alone in the woods. 

Oh yes, says Blue, not wanting to carry his ignorance too far. 
Someone once told me about him. Very fond of nature he was. 
Is that the man you mean? 

Precisely,  answers  Black.  Henry  David  Thoreau.  He  came 
down from Massachusetts for a little while and paid a call on 
Whitman in Brooklyn. But the day before that he came right 
here to Orange Street. 

Any particular reason? 
Plymouth Church. He wanted to hear Henry Ward Beecher’s 

sermon. 

A lovely spot, says Blue, thinking of the pleasant hours he has 

spent in the grassy yard. I like to go there myself. 

Many great men have gone there, says Black. Abraham Lin-
coln,  Charles  Dickens—they  all  walked  down  this  street  and 
went into the church. 

Ghosts. 
Yes, there are ghosts all around us. 
And the story? 
It’s really very simple. Thoreau and Bronson Alcott, a friend 
of  his,  arrived  at  Whitman’s  house  on  Myrtle  Avenue,  and 
Walt’s mother sent them up to the attic bedroom he shared with 
his mentally retarded brother, Eddy. Everything was just ﬁne. 
They shook hands, exchanged greetings, and so on. But then, 
when they sat down to discuss their views of life, Thoreau and 
Alcott  noticed  a  full  chamber  pot  right  in  the  middle  of  the 
ﬂoor. Walt was of course an expansive fellow and paid no at-
tention,  but  the  two  New  Englanders  found  it  hard  to  keep 

172 

the new york trilogy 

talking with a bucket of excrement in front of them. So eventu-
ally they went downstairs to the parlor and continued the con-
versation there. It’s a minor detail, I realize. But still, when two 
great writers meet, history is made, and it’s important to get all 
the facts straight. That chamber pot, you see, somehow reminds 
me of the brains on the ﬂoor. And when you stop to think about 
it, there’s a certain similarity of form. The bumps and convolu-
tions,  I  mean.  There’s  a  deﬁnite  connection.  Brains  and  guts, 
the insides of a man. We always talk about trying to get inside a 
writer to understand his work better. But when you get right 
down to it, there’s not much to ﬁnd in there—at least not much 
that’s different from what you’d ﬁnd in anyone else. 

You seem to know a lot about these things, says Blue, who’s 

beginning to lose the thread of Black’s argument. 

It’s my hobby, says Black. I like to know how writers live, es-

pecially American writers. It helps me to understand things. 

I see, says Blue, who sees nothing at all, for with each word 

Black speaks, he ﬁnds himself understanding less and less. 

Take  Hawthorne,  says  Black.  A  good  friend  of  Thoreau’s, 
and  probably  the  ﬁrst  real  writer  America  ever  had.  After  he 
graduated from college, he went back to his mother’s house in 
Salem,  shut  himself  up  in  his  room,  and  didn’t  come  out  for 
twelve years. 

What did he do in there? 
He wrote stories. 
Is that all? He just wrote? 
Writing is a solitary business. It takes over your life. In some 
sense, a writer has no life of his own. Even when he’s there, he’s 
not really there. 

Another ghost. 
Exactly. 
Sounds mysterious. 
It is. But Hawthorne wrote great stories, you see, and we still 
read  them  now,  more  than  a  hundred  years  later.  In  one  of 
them,  a  man  named  Wakeﬁeld  decides  to  play  a  joke  on  his 
wife. He tells her that he has to go away on a business trip for a 
few  days,  but  instead  of  leaving  the  city,  he  goes  around  the 
corner, rents a room, and just waits to see what will happen. He 

ghosts 

173 

can’t say for sure why he’s doing it, but he does it just the same. 
Three or four days go by, but he doesn’t feel ready to return 
home yet, and so he stays on in the rented room. The days turn 
into  weeks,  the  weeks  turn  into  months.  One  day  Wakeﬁeld 
walks  down  his  old  street  and  sees  his  house  decked  out  in 
mourning.  It’s  his  own  funeral,  and  his  wife  has  become  a 
lonely widow. Years go by. Every now and then he crosses paths 
with his wife in town, and once, in the middle of a large crowd, 
he  actually  brushes  up  against  her.  But  she  doesn’t  recognize 
him. More years pass, more than twenty years, and little by lit-
tle Wakeﬁeld has become an old man. One rainy night in au-
tumn,  as  he’s  taking  a  walk  through  the  empty  streets,  he 
happens to pass by his old house and peeks through the win-
dow. There’s a nice warm ﬁre burning in the ﬁreplace, and he 
thinks to himself: how pleasant it would be if I were in there 
right now, sitting in one of those cozy chairs by the hearth, in-
stead of standing out here in the rain. And so, without giving it 
any more thought than that, he walks up the steps of the house 
and knocks on the door. 

And then? 
That’s it. That’s the end of the story. The last thing we see is 
the door opening and Wakeﬁeld going inside with a crafty smile 
on his face. 

And we never know what he says to his wife? 
No.  That’s  the  end.  Not  another  word.  But  he  moved  in 
again, we know that much, and remained a loving spouse until 
death. 

By now the sky has begun to darken overhead, and night is 
fast approaching. A last glimmer of pink remains in the west, 
but the day is as good as done. Black, taking his cue from the 
darkness, stands up from his spot and extends his hand to Blue. 
It’s been a pleasure talking to you, he says. I had no idea we’d 

been sitting here so long. 

The pleasure’s been mine, says Blue, relieved that the conver-
sation is over, for he knows that it won’t be long now before his 
beard begins to slip, what with the summer heat and his nerves 
making him perspire into the glue. 

My name is Black, says Black, shaking Blue’s hand. 

174 

the new york trilogy 

Mine’s Jimmy, says Blue. Jimmy Rose. 
I’ll remember this little talk of ours for a long time, Jimmy, 

says Black. 

I will, too, says Blue. You’ve given me a lot to think about. 
God bless you, Jimmy Rose, says Black. 
And God bless you, sir, says Blue. 
And then, with one last handshake, they walk off in opposite 

directions, each one accompanied by his own thoughts. 

Later that night, when Blue returns to his room, he decides 
that he had best bury Jimmy Rose now, get rid of him for good. 
The old tramp has served his purpose, but beyond this point it 
would not be wise to go. 

Blue is glad to have made this initial contact with Black, but 
the encounter did not quite have its desired effect, and all in all 
he feels rather shaken by it. For even though the talk had noth-
ing to do with the case, Blue cannot help feeling that Black was 
actually referring to it all along—talking in riddles, so to speak, 
as though trying to tell Blue something, but not daring to say it 
out loud. Yes, Black was more than friendly, his manner was al-
together pleasant, but still Blue cannot get rid of the thought 
that the man was on to him from the start. If so, then Black is 
surely  one  of  the  conspirators—for  why  else  would  he  have 
gone  on  talking  to  Blue  as  he  did?  Not  from  loneliness,  cer-
tainly. Assuming that Black is for real, then loneliness cannot be 
an issue. Everything about his life to this point has been part of 
a determined plan to remain alone, and it would be absurd to 
read his willingness to talk as an effort to escape the throes of 
solitude.  Not  at  this  late  date,  not  after  more  than  a  year  of 
avoiding all human contact. If Black is ﬁnally resolved to break 
out of his hermetic routine, then why would he begin by talking 
to a broken-down old man on a street corner? No, Black knew 
that he was talking to Blue. And if he knew that, then he knows 
who  Blue  is.  No  two  ways  about  it,  Blue  says  to  himself:  he 
knows everything. 

When the time comes for him to write his next report, Blue is 
forced  to  confront  this  dilemma.  White  never  said  anything 
about making contact with Black. Blue was to watch him, no 
more, no less, and he wonders now if he has not in fact broken 

ghosts 

175 

the rules of his assignment. If he includes the conversation in his 
report, then White might object. On the other hand, if he does 
not put it in, and if Black is indeed working with White, then 
White will know immediately that Blue is lying. Blue mulls this 
over for a long time, but for all that he gets no closer to ﬁnding 
a solution. He’s stuck, one way or the other, and he knows it. In 
the end, he decides to leave it out, but only because he still puts 
some meager hope in the fact that he has guessed wrong and 
that White and Black are not in it together. But this last little 
stab at optimism soon comes to naught. Three days after send-
ing in the sanitized report, his weekly check comes in the mail, 
and inside the envelope there is also a note that says, Why do 
you  lie?,  and  then  Blue  has  proof  beyond  any  shadow  of  a 
doubt. And from that moment on, Blue lives with the knowl-
edge that he is drowning. 

The next night he follows Black into Manhattan on the sub-
way, dressed in his normal clothes, no longer feeling he has to 
hide  anything.  Black  gets  off  at  Times  Square  and  wanders 
around for a while in the bright lights, the noise, the crowds of 
people surging this way and that. Blue, watching him as though 
his life depended on it, is never more than three or four steps 
behind him. At nine o’clock, Black enters the lobby of the Al-
gonquin Hotel, and Blue follows him in. There’s quite a crowd 
milling about, and tables are scarce, so when Black sits down in 
a corner nook that just that moment has become free, it seems 
perfectly natural for Blue to approach and politely ask if he can 
join him. Black has no objection and gestures with an indiffer-
ent shrug of the shoulders for Blue to take the chair opposite. 
For several minutes they say nothing to each other, waiting for 
someone  to  take  their  orders,  in  the  meantime  watching  the 
women walk by in their summer dresses, inhaling the different 
perfumes that ﬂit behind them in the air, and Blue feels no rush 
to jump into things, content to bide his time and let the busi-
ness take its course. When the waiter at last comes to ask their 
pleasure, Black orders a Black and White on the rocks, and Blue 
cannot  help  but  take  this  as  a  secret  message  that  the  fun  is 
about to begin, all the while marveling at Black’s effrontery, his 
crassness, his vulgar obsession. For the sake of symmetry, Blue 

176 

the new york trilogy 

orders the same drink. As he does so, he looks Black in the eyes, 
but Black gives nothing away, looking back at Blue with utter 
blankness, dead eyes that seem to say there is nothing behind 
them and that no matter how hard Blue looks, he will never ﬁnd 
a thing. 

This  gambit  nevertheless  breaks  the  ice,  and  they  begin  by 
discussing  the  merits  of  various  brands  of  scotch.  Plausibly 
enough, one thing leads to another, and as they sit there chat-
ting about the inconveniences of the New York summer season, 
the decor of the hotel, the Algonquin Indians who lived in the 
city  long  ago  when  it  was  all  woods  and  ﬁelds,  Blue  slowly 
evolves into the character he wants to play for the night, settling 
on  a  jovial  blowhard  by  the  name  of  Snow,  a  life  insurance 
salesman from Kenosha, Wisconsin. Play dumb, Blue tells him-
self, for he knows that it would make no sense to reveal who he 
is, even though he knows that Black knows. It’s got to be hide 
and seek, he says, hide and seek to the end. 

They  ﬁnish  their  ﬁrst  drink  and  order  another  round,  fol-
lowed by yet another, and as the talk ambles from actuarial ta-
bles  to  the  life  expectancies  of  men  in  different  professions, 
Black lets fall a remark that turns the conversation in another 
direction. 

I suppose I wouldn’t be very high up on your list, he says. 
Oh? says Blue, having no idea what to expect. What kind of 

work do you do? 

I’m a private detective, says Black, point blank, all cool and 
collected, and for a brief moment Blue is tempted to throw his 
drink  in  Black’s  face,  he’s  that  peeved,  that  burned  at  the 
man’s gall. 

You don’t say! Blue exclaims, quickly recovering and manag-
ing to feign a bumpkin’s surprise. A private detective. Imagine 
that. In the ﬂesh. Just think of what the wife will say when I tell 
her. Me in New York having drinks with a private eye. She’ll 
never believe it. 

What I’m trying to say, says Black rather abruptly, is that I 
don’t imagine my life expectancy is very great. At least not ac-
cording to your statistics. 

Probably not, Blue blusters on. But think of the excitement! 

ghosts 

177 

There’s more to life than living a long time, you know. Half the 
men in America would give ten years off their retirement to live 
the way you do. Cracking cases, living by your wits, seducing 
women, pumping bad guys full of lead—God, there’s a lot to be 
said for it. 

That’s all make-believe, says Black. Real detective work can 

be pretty dull. 

Well, every job has its routines, Blue continues. But in your 
case at least you know that all the hard work will eventually 
lead to something out of the ordinary. 

Sometimes yes, sometimes no. But most of the time it’s no. 
Take the case I’m working on now. I’ve been at it for more than 
a year already, and nothing could be more boring. I’m so bored 
that sometimes I think I’m losing my mind. 

How so? 
Well, ﬁgure it out for yourself. My job is to watch someone, 
no one in particular as far as I can tell, and send in a report 
about him every week. Just that. Watch this guy and write about 
it. Not one damned thing more. 
What’s so terrible about that? 
He doesn’t do anything, that’s what. He just sits in his room 

all day and writes. It’s enough to drive you crazy. 

It could be that he’s leading you along. You know, lulling you 

to sleep before springing into action. 

That’s what I thought at ﬁrst. But now I’m sure that nothing’s 

going to happen—not ever. I can feel it in my bones. 

That’s too bad, says Blue sympathetically. Maybe you should 

resign from the case. 

I’m thinking about it. I’m also thinking that maybe I should 
just chuck the whole business and go into something else. Some 
other line of work. Sell insurance, maybe, or run off to join the 
circus. 

I never realized it could get as bad as that, says Blue, shaking 
his head. But tell me, why aren’t you watching your man now? 
Shouldn’t you be keeping an eye on him? 

That’s  just  the  point,  answers  Black.  I  don’t  even  have  to 
bother anymore. I’ve been watching him for so long now that I 
know him better than I know myself. All I have to do is think 

178 

the new york trilogy 

about him, and I know what he’s doing, I know where he is, I 
know everything. It’s come to the point that I can watch him 
with my eyes closed. 

Do you know where he is now? 
At home. The same as usual. Sitting in his room and writing. 
What’s he writing about? 
I’m not sure, but I have a pretty good idea. I think he’s writ-
ing about himself. The story of his life. That’s the only possible 
answer. Nothing else would ﬁt. 

So why all the mystery? 
I don’t know, says Black, and for the ﬁrst time his voice be-

trays some emotion, catching ever so slightly on the words. 

It all boils down to one question, then, doesn’t it? says Blue, 
forgetting all about Snow now and looking Black straight in the 
eyes. Does he know you’re watching him or not? 

Black turns away, unable to look at Blue anymore, and says 
with a suddenly trembling voice: Of course he knows. That’s 
the  whole  point,  isn’t  it?  He’s  got  to  know,  or  else  nothing 
makes sense. 

Why? 
Because he needs me, says Black, still looking away. He needs 

my eyes looking at him. He needs me to prove he’s alive. 

Blue sees a tear fall down Black’s cheek, but before he can 
say anything, before he can begin to press home his advantage, 
Black stands up hastily and excuses himself, saying that he has 
to make a telephone call. Blue waits in his chair for ten or ﬁf-
teen  minutes,  but  he  knows  that  he’s  wasting  his  time.  Black 
won’t  be  back.  The  conversation  is  over,  and  no  matter  how 
long he sits there, nothing more will happen tonight. 

Blue pays for the drinks and then heads back to Brooklyn. As 
he turns down Orange Street, he looks up at Black’s window 
and sees that everything is dark. No matter, says Blue, he’ll re-
turn before long. We haven’t come to the end yet. The party is 
only beginning. Wait until the champagne is opened, and then 
we’ll see what’s what. 

Once  inside,  Blue  paces  back  and  forth,  trying  to  plot  his 
next move. It seems to him that Black has ﬁnally made a mis-
take, but he is not quite certain. For in spite of the evidence, 

ghosts 

179 

Blue cannot shrug the feeling that it was all done on purpose, 
and that Black has now begun to call out to him, leading him 
along, so to speak, urging him on towards whatever end he is 
planning. 

Still, he has broken through to something, and for the ﬁrst 
time since the case began he is no longer standing where he was. 
Ordinarily, Blue would be celebrating this little triumph of his, 
but it turns out that he is in no mood for patting himself on the 
back  tonight.  More  than  anything  else,  he  feels  sad,  he  feels 
drained  of  enthusiasm,  he  feels  disappointed  in  the  world. 
Somehow, the facts have ﬁnally let him down, and he ﬁnds it 
hard not to take it personally, knowing full well that however he 
might present the case to himself, he is a part of it, too. Then 
he walks to the window, looks out across the street, and sees 
that the lights are now on in Black’s room. 

He lies down on his bed and thinks: good-bye, Mr. White. 
You were never really there, were you? There never was such a 
man as White. And then: poor Black. Poor soul. Poor blighted 
no one. And then, as his eyes grow heavy and sleep begins to 
wash over him, he thinks how strange it is that everything has 
its  own  color.  Everything  we  see,  everything  we  touch— 
everything  in  the  world  has  its  own  color.  Struggling  to  stay 
awake a little longer, he begins to make a list. Take blue for ex-
ample,  he  says.  There  are  bluebirds  and  blue  jays  and  blue 
herons. There are cornﬂowers and periwinkles. There is noon 
over New York. There are blueberries, huckleberries, and the 
Paciﬁc Ocean. There are blue devils and blue ribbons and blue 
bloods. There is a voice singing the blues. There is my father’s 
police uniform. There are blue laws and blue movies. There are 
my eyes and my name. He pauses, suddenly at a loss for more 
blue  things,  and  then  moves  on  to  white.  There  are  seagulls, 
he says, and terns and storks and cockatoos. There are the walls 
of this room and the sheets on my bed. There are lilies-of-the-
valley, carnations, and the petals of daisies. There is the ﬂag of 
peace  and  Chinese  death.  There  is  mother’s  milk  and  semen. 
There are my teeth. There are the whites of my eyes. There are 
white bass and white pines and white ants. There is the Presi-
dent’s house and white rot. There are white lies and white heat. 

180 

the new york trilogy 

Then, without hesitating, he moves on to black, beginning with 
black books, the black market, and the Black Hand. There is 
night  over  New  York,  he  says.  There  are  the  Chicago  Black 
Sox.  There  are  blackberries  and  crows,  blackouts  and  black 
marks, Black Tuesday and the Black Death. There is blackmail. 
There is my hair.  There is the  ink that comes  out of a pen.  
There is the world a blind man sees. Then, ﬁnally growing tired 
of the game, he begins to drift, saying to himself that there is no 
end to it. He falls asleep, dreams of things that happened long 
ago, and then, in the middle of the night, wakes up suddenly 
and begins pacing the room again, thinking about what he will 
do next. 

Morning  comes,  and  Blue  starts  busying  himself  with  an-
other disguise. This time it’s the Fuller brush man, a trick he has 
used before, and for the next two hours he patiently goes about 
giving himself a bald head, a moustache, and age lines around 
his eyes and mouth, sitting in front of his little mirror like an 
old-time vaudevillian on tour. Shortly after eleven o’clock, he 
gathers  up  his  case  of  brushes  and  walks  across  the  street  to 
Black’s building. Picking the lock on the front door is child’s 
play for Blue, no more than a matter of seconds, and as he slips 
into the hallway he can’t help feeling something of the old thrill. 
No  tough  stuff,  he  reminds  himself,  as  he  starts  climbing  the 
stairs to Black’s ﬂoor. This visit is only to get a look inside, to 
stake out the room for future reference. Still, there’s an excite-
ment to the moment that Blue can’t quite suppress. For it’s more 
than just seeing the room, he knows—it’s the thought of being 
there himself, of standing inside those four walls, of breathing 
the same air as Black. From now on, he thinks, everything that 
happens will affect everything else. The door will open, and af-
ter that Black will be inside of him forever. 

He knocks, the door opens, and suddenly there is no more 
distance, the thing and the thought of the thing are one and the 
same.  Then  it’s  Black  who  is  there,  standing  in  the  doorway 
with an uncapped fountain pen in his right hand, as though in-
terrupted in his work, and yet with a look in his eyes that tells 
Blue he’s been expecting him, resigned to the hard truth, but no 
longer seeming to care. 

ghosts 

181 

Blue launches into his patter about the brushes, pointing to 
the case, offering apologies, asking admittance, all in the same 
breath,  with  that  rapid  saleman’s  pitch  he’s  done  a  thousand 
times before. Black calmly lets him in, saying he might be inter-
ested in a toothbrush, and as Blue steps across the sill, he goes 
rattling on about hair brushes and clothes brushes, anything to 
keep the words ﬂowing, for in that way he can leave the rest of 
himself free to take in the room, observe the observable, think, 
all the while diverting Black from his true purpose. 

The room is much as he imagined it would be, though per-
haps  even  more  austere.  Nothing  on  the  walls,  for  example, 
which  surprises  him  a  little,  since  he  always  thought  there 
would be a picture or two, an image of some kind just to break 
the monotony, a nature scene perhaps, or else a portrait of some-
one  Black  might  once  have  loved.  Blue  was  always  curious  to 
know what the picture would be, thinking it might be a valuable 
clue, but now that he sees there is nothing, he understands that 
this is what he should have expected all along. Other than that, 
there’s  precious  little  to  contradict  his  former  notions.  It’s  the 
same monk’s cell he saw in his mind: the small, neatly made bed 
in one corner, the kitchenette in another corner, everything spot-
less, not a crumb to be seen. Then, in the center of the room 
facing the window, the wooden table with a single stiff-backed 
wooden  chair.  Pencils,  pens,  a  typewriter.  A  bureau,  a  night 
table, a lamp. A bookcase on the north wall, but no more than 
several books in it: Walden, Leaves of Grass, Twice-Told Tales, 
a  few  others.  No  telephone,  no  radio,  no  magazines.  On  the 
table,  neatly  stacked  around  the  edges,  piles  of  paper:  some 
blank, some written on, some typed, some in longhand. Hun-
dreds of pages, perhaps thousands. But you can’t call this a life, 
thinks  Blue.  You  can’t  really  call  it  anything.  It’s  a  no  man’s 
land, the place you come to at the end of the world. 

They  look  through  the  toothbrushes,  and  Black  ﬁnally 
chooses a red one. From there they start examining the various 
clothes  brushes,  with  Blue  giving  demonstrations  on  his  own 
suit.  For  a  man  as  neat  as  yourself,  says  Blue,  I  should  think 
you’d ﬁnd it indispensable. But Black says he’s managed so far 
without one. On the other hand, maybe he’d like to consider a 

182 

the new york trilogy 

hair brush, and so they go through the possibilities in the sam-
ple case, discussing the different sizes and shapes, the different 
kinds of bristles, and so on. Blue is already done with his real 
business, of course, but he goes through the motions neverthe-
less, wanting to do the thing right, even if it doesn’t matter. Still, 
after Black has paid for the brushes and Blue is packing up his 
case to go, he can’t resist making one little remark. You seem to 
be a writer, he says, gesturing to the table, and Black says yes, 
that’s right, he’s a writer. 

It looks like a big book, Blue continues. 
Yes, says Black. I’ve been working on it for many years. 
Are you almost ﬁnished? 
I’m getting there, Black says thoughtfully. But sometimes it’s 
hard to know where you are. I think I’m almost done, and then 
I realize I’ve left out something important, and so I have to go 
back to the beginning again. But yes, I do dream of ﬁnishing it 
one day. One day soon, perhaps. 

I hope I get a chance to read it, says Blue. 
Anything is possible, says Black. But ﬁrst of all, I’ve got to ﬁn-
ish it. There are days when I don’t even know if I’ll live that long. 
Well, we never know, do we? says Blue, nodding philosophi-
cally. One day we’re alive, and the next day we’re dead. It hap-
pens to all of us. 

Very true, says Black. It happens to all of us. 
They’re  standing  by  the  door  now,  and  something  in  Blue 
wants to go on making inane remarks of this sort. Playing the 
buffoon is enjoyable, he realizes, but at the same time there’s an 
urge  to  toy  with  Black,  to  prove  that  nothing  has  escaped 
him—for deep down Blue wants Black to know that he’s just as 
smart as he is, that he can match wits with him every step of the 
way. But Blue manages to ﬁght back the impulse and hold his 
tongue,  nodding  politely  in  thanks  for  the  sales,  and  then 
makes his exit. That’s the end of the Fuller brush man, and less 
than an hour later he is discarded into the same bag that holds the 
remains of Jimmy Rose. Blue knows that no more disguises will 
be needed. The next step is inevitable, and the only thing that 
matters now is to choose the right moment. 

But three nights later, when he ﬁnally gets his chance, Blue 

ghosts 

183 

realizes that he’s scared. Black goes out at nine o’clock, walks 
down the street, and vanishes around the corner. Although Blue 
knows that this is a direct signal, that Black is practically beg-
ging him to make his move, he also feels that it could be a set-
up, and now, at the last possible moment, when only just before 
he was ﬁlled with conﬁdence, almost swaggering with a sense 
of his own power, he sinks into a fresh torment of self-doubt. 
Why  should  he  suddenly  begin  to  trust  Black?  What  earthly 
cause could there be for him to think they are both working on 
the same side now? How has this happened, and why does he 
ﬁnd  himself  so  obsequiously  at  Black’s  bidding  once  again? 
Then, from out of the blue, he begins to consider another possi-
bility. What if he just simply left? What if he stood up, went out 
the door, and walked away from the whole business? He pon-
ders this thought for a while, testing it out in his mind, and lit-
tle  by  little  he  begins  to  tremble,  overcome  by  terror  and 
happiness, like a slave stumbling onto a vision of his own free-
dom. He imagines himself somewhere else, far away from here, 
walking through the woods and swinging an axe over his shoul-
der. Alone and free, his own man at last. He would build his life 
from the bottom up, an exile, a pioneer, a pilgrim in the new 
world. But that is as far as he gets. For no sooner does he begin 
to walk through these woods in the middle of nowhere than he 
feels that Black is there, too, hiding behind some tree, stalking 
invisibly through some thicket, waiting for Blue to lie down and 
close his eyes before sneaking up on him and slitting his throat. 
It goes on and on, Blue thinks. If he doesn’t take care of Black 
now, there will never be any end to it. This is what the ancients 
called fate, and every hero must submit to it. There is no choice, 
and if there is anything to be done, it is only the one thing that 
leaves no choice. But Blue is loathe to acknowledge it. He strug-
gles against it, he rejects it, he grows sick at heart. But that is 
only because he already knows, and to ﬁght it is already to have 
accepted it, to want to say no is already to have said yes. And so 
Blue gradually comes round, at last giving in to the necessity of 
the  thing  to  be  done.  But  that  is  not  to  say  he  does  not  feel 
afraid.  From  this  moment  on,  there  is  only  one  word  that 
speaks for Blue, and that word is fear. 

184 

the new york trilogy 

He  has  wasted  valuable  time,  and  now  he  must  rush  forth 
onto the street, hoping feverishly it is not too late. Black will 
not be gone forever, and who knows if he is not lurking around 
the corner, just waiting for the moment to pounce? Blue races 
up  the  steps  of  Black’s  building,  fumbles  awkwardly  as  he 
picks the front door lock, continually glancing over his shoul-
der,  and  then  goes  up  the  stairs  to  Black’s  ﬂoor.  The  second 
lock gives him more trouble than the ﬁrst, though theoretically 
it should be simpler, an easy job even for the rawest beginner. 
This clumsiness tells Blue that he’s losing control, letting it all 
get the better of him; but even though he knows it, there’s little 
he can do but ride it out and hope that his hands will stop shak-
ing. But it goes from bad to worse, and the moment he sets foot 
in  Black’s  room,  he  feels  everything  go  dark  inside  him,  as 
though  the  night  were  pressing  through  his  pores,  sitting  on 
top of him with a tremendous weight, and at the same time his 
head seems to be growing, ﬁlling with air as though about to 
detach itself from his body and ﬂoat away. He takes one more 
step into the room and then blacks out, collapsing to the ﬂoor 
like a dead man. 

His  watch  stops  with  the  fall,  and  when  he  comes  to  he 
doesn’t know how long he’s been out. Dimly at ﬁrst, he regains 
consciousness with a sense of having been here before, perhaps 
long ago, and as he sees the curtains ﬂuttering by the open win-
dow and the shadows moving strangely on the ceiling, he thinks 
that he is lying in bed at home, back when he was a little boy, 
unable to sleep during the hot summer nights, and he imagines 
that if he listens hard enough he will be able to hear the voices 
of his mother and father talking quietly in the next room. But 
this lasts only a moment. He begins to feel the ache in his head, 
to register the disturbing queasiness in his stomach, and then, 
ﬁnally seeing where he is, to relive the panic that gripped him 
the moment he entered the room. He scrambles shakily to his 
feet, stumbling once or twice in the process, and tells himself he 
can’t stay here, he’s got to be going, yes, and right away. He 
grabs hold of the doorknob, but then, remembering suddenly 
why he came here in the ﬁrst place, snatches the ﬂashlight from 
his pocket and turns it on, waving it ﬁtfully around the room 

ghosts 

185 

until the light falls by chance on a pile of papers stacked neatly 
at the edge of Black’s desk. Without thinking twice, Blue gath-
ers up the papers with his free hand, saying to himself it doesn’t 
matter, this will be a start, and then makes his way to the door. 
Back in his room across the street, Blue pours himself a glass 
of brandy, sits down on his bed, and tells himself to be calm. 
He drinks off the brandy sip by sip and then pours himself an-
other glass. As his panic begins to subside, he is left with a feel-
ing of shame. He’s botched it, he tells himself, and that’s the 
long and the short of it. For the ﬁrst time in his life he has not 
been equal to the moment, and it comes as a shock to him—to 
see himself as a failure, to realize that at bottom he’s a coward. 
He picks up the papers he has stolen, hoping to distract him-
self from these thoughts. But this only compounds the problem, 
for once he begins to read them, he sees they are nothing more 
than his own reports. There they are, one after the other, the 
weekly  accounts,  all  spelled  out  in  black  and  white,  meaning 
nothing, saying nothing, as far from the truth of the case as si-
lence would have been. Blue groans when he sees them, sinking 
down  deep  within  himself,  and  then,  in  the  face  of  what  he 
ﬁnds there, begins to laugh, at ﬁrst faintly, but with growing 
force, louder and louder, until he is gasping for breath, almost 
choking on it, as though trying to obliterate himself once and 
for all. Taking the papers ﬁrmly in his hand, he ﬂings them up 
to  the  ceiling  and  watches  the  pile  break  apart,  scatter,  and 
come ﬂuttering to the ground, page by miserable page. 

It is not certain that Blue ever really recovers from the events 
of this night. And even if he does, it must be noted that several 
days go by before he returns to a semblance of his former self. 
In that time he does not shave, he does not change his clothes, 
he does not even contemplate stirring from his room. When the 
day comes for him to write his next report, he does not bother. 
It’s ﬁnished now, he says, kicking one of the old reports on the 
ﬂoor, and I’ll be damned if I ever write one of those again. 

For the most part, he either lies on his bed or paces back and 
forth  in  his  room.  He  looks  at  the  various  pictures  he  has 
tacked onto the walls since starting the case, studying each one 
in  its  turn,  thinking  about  it  for  as  long  as  he  can,  and  then 

186 

the new york trilogy 

passing on to the next. There is the coroner from Philadelphia, 
Gold,  with  the  death  mask  of  the  little  boy.  There  is  a  snow-
covered mountain, and in the upper right hand corner of the pho-
tograph, an inset of the French skier, his face enclosed in a small 
box. There is the Brooklyn Bridge, and next to it the two Roe-
blings, father and son. There is Blue’s father, dressed in his police 
uniform  and  receiving  a  medal  from  the  mayor  of  New  York, 
Jimmy Walker. Again there is Blue’s father, this time in his street 
clothes, standing with his arm around Blue’s mother in the early 
days of their marriage, the two of them smiling brightly into the 
camera. There is a picture of Brown with his arm around Blue, 
taken in front of their ofﬁce on the day Blue was made a partner. 
Below it there is an action shot of Jackie Robinson sliding into 
second base. Next to that there is a portrait of Walt Whitman. 
And  ﬁnally,  directly  to  the  poet’s  left,  there  is  a  movie  still  of 
Robert Mitchum from one of the fan magazines: gun in hand, 
looking as though the world is about to cave in on him. There is 
no picture of the ex-future Mrs. Blue, but each time Blue makes 
a tour of his little gallery, he pauses in front of a certain blank 
spot on the wall and pretends that she, too, is there. 

For several days, Blue does not bother to look out the win-
dow. He has enclosed himself so thoroughly in his own thoughts 
that  Black  no  longer  seems  to  be  there.  The  drama  is  Blue’s 
alone, and if Black is in some sense the cause of it, it’s as though 
he has already played his part, spoken his lines, and made his 
exit from the stage. For Blue at this point can no longer accept 
Black’s existence, and therefore he denies it. Having penetrated 
Black’s room and stood there alone, having been, so to speak, 
in  the  sanctum  of  Black’s  solitude,  he  cannot  respond  to  the 
darkness of that moment except by replacing it with a solitude 
of his own. To enter Black, then, was the equivalent of entering 
himself, and once inside himself, he can no longer conceive of 
being anywhere else. But this is precisely where Black is, even 
though Blue does not know it. 

One afternoon, therefore, as if by chance, Blue comes closer 
to the window than he has in many days, happens to pause in 
front of it, and then, as if for old time’s sake, parts the curtains 
and looks outside. The ﬁrst thing he sees is Black—not inside 

ghosts 

187 

his  room,  but  sitting  on  the  stoop  of  his  building  across  the 
street, looking up at Blue’s window. Is he ﬁnished, then? Blue 
wonders. Does this mean it’s over? 

Blue retrieves his binoculars from the back of the room and 
returns to the window. Bringing them into focus on Black, he 
studies the man’s face for several minutes, ﬁrst one feature and 
then another, the eyes, the lips, the nose, and so on, taking the 
face apart and then putting it back together. He is moved by the 
depth of Black’s sadness, the way the eyes looking up at him 
seem  so  devoid  of  hope,  and  in  spite  of  himself,  caught  un-
awares by this image, Blue feels compassion rising up in him, a 
rush of pity for that forlorn ﬁgure across the street. He wishes 
it were not so, however, wishes he had the courage to load his 
gun, take aim at Black, and ﬁre a bullet through his head. He’d 
never know what hit him, Blue thinks, he’d be in heaven before 
he touched the ground. But as soon as he has played out this lit-
tle scene in his mind, he begins to recoil from it. No, he realizes, 
that’s not what he wishes at all. If not that, then—what? Still 
struggling against the surge of tender feelings, saying to himself 
that he wants to be left alone, that all he wants is peace and 
quiet, it gradually dawns on him that he has in fact been stand-
ing there for several minutes wondering if there is not some way 
that he might help Black, if it would not be possible for him to 
offer his hand in friendship. That would certainly turn the ta-
bles, Blue thinks, that would certainly stand the whole business 
on  its  head.  But  why  not?  Why  not  do  the  unexpected?  To 
knock on the door, to erase the whole story—it’s no less absurd 
than anything else. For the fact of the matter is, all the ﬁght has 
been taken out of Blue. He no longer has the stomach for it. 
And, to all appearances, neither does Black. Just look at him, 
Blue  says  to  himself.  He’s  the  saddest  creature  in  the  world. 
And then, the moment he says these words, he understands that 
he’s also talking about himself. 

Long after Black leaves the steps, therefore, turning around 
and reentering the building, Blue goes on staring at the vacant 
spot.  An  hour  or  two  before  dusk,  he  ﬁnally  turns  from  the 
window, sees the disorder he has allowed his room to fall into, 
and spends the next hour straightening things up—washing the 

188 

the new york trilogy 

dishes, making the bed, putting away his clothes, removing the 
old  reports  from  the  ﬂoor.  Then  he  goes  into  the  bathroom, 
takes a long shower, shaves, and puts on fresh clothes, selecting 
his best blue suit for the occasion. Everything is different for 
him now, suddenly and irrevocably different. There is no more 
dread,  no  more  trembling.  Nothing  but  a  calm  assurance,  a 
sense of rightness in the thing he is about to do. 

Shortly after nightfall, he adjusts his tie one last time before 
the mirror and then leaves the room, going outside, crossing the 
street,  and  entering  Black’s  building.  He  knows  that  Black  is 
there, since a small lamp is on in his room, and as he walks up 
the stairs he tries to imagine the expression that will come over 
Black’s face when he tells him what he has in mind. He knocks 
twice on the door, very politely, and then hears Black’s voice 
from within: The door’s open. Come in. 

It is difﬁcult to say exactly what Blue was expecting to ﬁnd— 
but in all events, it was not this, not the thing that confronts 
him the moment he steps into the room. Black is there, sitting 
on his bed, and he’s wearing the mask again, the same one Blue 
saw on the man in the post ofﬁce, and in his right hand he’s 
holding a gun, a thirty-eight revolver, enough to blow a man 
apart at such close range, and he’s pointing it directly at Blue. 
Blue stops in his tracks, says nothing. So much for burying the 
hatchet, he thinks. So much for turning the tables. 

Sit  down  in  the  chair,  Blue,  says  Black,  gesturing  with  the 
gun to the wooden desk chair. Blue has no choice, and so he 
sits—now  facing  Black,  but  too  far  away  to  make  a  lunge  at 
him, too awkwardly positioned to do anything about the gun. 

I’ve  been  waiting  for  you,  says  Black.  I’m  glad  you  ﬁnally 

made it. 

I ﬁgured as much, answers Blue. 
Are you surprised? 
Not really. At least not at you. Myself maybe—but only be-
cause I’m so stupid. You see, I came here tonight in friendship. 
But  of  course  you  did,  says  Black,  in  a  slightly  mocking 
voice. Of course we’re friends. We’ve been friends from the be-
ginning, haven’t we? The very best of friends. 

ghosts 

189 

If this is how you treat your friends, says Blue, then lucky for 

me I’m not one of your enemies. 

Very funny. 
That’s  right,  I’m  the  original  funny  man.  You  can  always 

count on a lot of laughs when I’m around. 

And the mask—aren’t you going to ask me about the mask? 
I don’t see why. If you want to wear that thing, it’s not my 

problem. 

But you have to look at it, don’t you? 
Why ask questions when you already know the answer? 
It’s grotesque, isn’t it? 
Of course it’s grotesque. 
And frightening to look at. 
Yes, very frightening. 
Good. I like you, Blue. I always knew you were the right one 

for me. A man after my own heart. 

If you stopped waving that gun around, maybe I’d start feel-

ing the same about you. 

I’m sorry, I can’t do that. It’s too late now. 
Which means? 
I don’t need you anymore, Blue. 
It might not be so easy to get rid of me, you know. You got 

me into this, and now you’re stuck with me. 

No, Blue, you’re wrong. Everything is over now. 
Stop the doubletalk. 
It’s ﬁnished. The whole thing is played out. There’s nothing 

more to be done. 

Since when? 
Since now. Since this moment. 
You’re out of your mind. 
No, Blue. If anything, I’m in my mind, too much in my mind. 
It’s  used  me  up,  and  now  there’s  nothing  left.  But  you  know 
that, Blue, you know that better than anyone. 

So why don’t you just pull the trigger? 
When I’m ready, I will. 
And then walk out of here leaving my body on the ﬂoor? Fat 

chance. 

190 

the new york trilogy 

Oh no, Blue. You don’t understand. It’s going to be the two 

of us together, just like always. 

But you’re forgetting something, aren’t you? 
Forgetting what? 
You’re supposed to tell me the story. Isn’t that how it’s sup-
posed to end? You tell me the story, and then we say good-bye. 
You know it already, Blue. Don’t you understand that? You 

know the story by heart. 

Then why did you bother in the ﬁrst place? 
Don’t ask stupid questions. 
And me—what was I there for? Comic relief? 
No,  Blue,  I’ve  needed  you  from  the  beginning.  If  it  hadn’t 

been for you, I couldn’t have done it. 

Needed me for what? 
To  remind  me  of  what  I  was  supposed  to  be  doing.  Every 
time I looked up, you were there, watching me, following me, 
always in sight, boring into me with your eyes. You were the 
whole  world  to  me,  Blue,  and  I  turned  you  into  my  death. 
You’re  the  one  thing  that  doesn’t  change,  the  one  thing  that 
turns everything inside out. 

And  now  there’s  nothing  left.  You’ve  written  your  suicide 

note, and that’s the end of it. 

Exactly. 
You’re a fool. You’re a goddamned, miserable fool. 
I know that. But no more than anyone else. Are you going to 
sit there and tell me that you’re smarter than I am? At least I 
know  what  I’ve  been  doing.  I’ve  had  my  job  to  do,  and  I’ve 
done  it.  But  you’re  nowhere,  Blue.  You’ve  been  lost  from  the 
ﬁrst day. 

Why don’t you pull the trigger, then, you bastard? says Blue, 
suddenly standing up and pounding his chest in anger, daring 
Black to kill him. Why don’t you shoot me now and get it over 
with? 

Blue  then  takes  a  step  towards  Black,  and  when  the  bullet 
doesn’t come, he takes another, and then another, screaming at 
the masked man to shoot, no longer caring if he lives or dies. A 
moment later, he’s right up against him. Without hesitating he 
swats the gun out of Black’s hand, grabs him by the collar, and 

ghosts 

191 

yanks him to his feet. Black tries to resist, tries to struggle against 
Blue, but Blue is too strong for him, all crazy with the passion of 
his anger, as though turned into someone else, and as the ﬁrst 
blows begin to land on Black’s face and groin and stomach, the 
man can do nothing, and not long after that he’s out cold on the 
ﬂoor. But that does not prevent Blue from continuing the assault, 
battering  the  unconscious  Black  with  his  feet,  picking  him  up 
and  banging  his  head  on  the  ﬂoor,  pelting  his  body  with  one 
punch after another. Eventually, when Blue’s fury begins to abate 
and he sees what he has done, he cannot say for certain whether 
Black is alive or dead. He removes the mask from Black’s face 
and  puts  his  ear  against  his  mouth,  listening  for  the  sound  of 
Black’s breath. There seems to be something, but he can’t tell if 
it’s coming from Black or himself. If he’s alive now, Blue thinks, 
it won’t be for long. And if he’s dead, then so be it. 

Blue stands up, his suit all in tatters, and begins collecting the 
pages of Black’s manuscript from the desk. This takes several 
minutes. When he has all of them, he turns off the lamp in the 
corner and leaves the room, not even bothering to give Black a 
last look. 

It’s past midnight when Blue gets back to his room across the 
street. He puts the manuscript down on the table, goes into the 
bathroom, and washes the blood off his hands. Then he changes 
his clothes, pours himself a glass of scotch, and sits down at the 
table with Black’s book. Time is short. They’ll be coming be-
fore he knows it, and then there will be hell to pay. Still, he does 
not let this interfere with the business at hand. 

He reads the story right through, every word of it from be-
ginning to end. By the time he ﬁnishes, dawn has come, and the 
room  has  begun  to  brighten.  He  hears  a  bird  sing,  he  hears 
footsteps going down the street, he hears a car driving across 
the Brooklyn Bridge. Black was right, he says to himself. I knew 
it all by heart. 

But the story is not yet over. There is still the ﬁnal moment, 
and that will not come until Blue leaves the room. Such is the 
way of the world: not one moment more, not one moment less. 
When Blue stands up from his chair, puts on his hat, and walks 
through the door, that will be the end of it. 

192 

the new york trilogy 

Where he goes after that is not important. For we must re-
member  that  all  this  took  place  more  than  thirty  years  ago, 
back in the days of our earliest childhood. Anything is possible, 
therefore. I myself prefer to think that he went far away, board-
ing a train that morning and going out West to start a new life. 
It is even possible that America was not the end of it. In my se-
cret dreams, I like to think of Blue booking passage on some 
ship and sailing to China. Let it be China, then, and we’ll leave 
it at that. For now is the moment that Blue stands up from his 
chair, puts on his hat, and walks through the door. And from 
this moment on, we know nothing. 

(1983) 

1 

It seems to me now that Fanshawe was always there. He is the 
place where everything begins for me, and without him I would 
hardly know who I am. We met before we could talk, babies 
crawling through the grass in diapers, and by the time we were 
seven we had pricked our ﬁngers with pins and made ourselves 
blood brothers for life. Whenever I think of my childhood now, 
I see Fanshawe. He was the one who was with me, the one who 
shared my thoughts, the one I saw whenever I looked up from 
myself. 

But that was a long time ago. We grew up, went off to differ-
ent places, drifted apart. None of that is very strange, I think. 
Our lives carry us along in ways we cannot control, and almost 
nothing stays with us. It dies when we do, and death is some-
thing that happens to us every day. 

Seven  years  ago  this  November,  I  received  a  letter  from  a 
woman  named  Sophie  Fanshawe.  “You  don’t  know  me,”  the 
letter began, “and I apologize for writing to you like this out of 
the  blue.  But  things  have  happened,  and  under  the  circum-
stances I don’t have much choice.” It turned out that she was 
Fanshawe’s wife. She knew that I had grown up with her hus-
band, and she also knew that I lived in New York, since she had 
read many of the articles I had published in magazines. 

The explanation came in the second paragraph, very bluntly, 
without any preamble. Fanshawe had disappeared, she wrote, 
and it was more than six months since she had last seen him. 
Not a word in all that time, not the slightest clue as to where he 
might be. The police had found no trace of him, and the private 
detective she hired to look for him had come up empty-handed. 

196 

the new york trilogy 

Nothing was sure, but the facts seemed to speak for themselves: 
Fanshawe  was  probably  dead;  it  was  pointless  to  think  he 
would be coming back. In the light of all this, there was some-
thing important she needed to discuss with me, and she won-
dered if I would agree to see her. 

This letter caused a series of little shocks in me. There was 
too much information to absorb all at once; too many forces 
were pulling me in different directions. Out of nowhere, Fan-
shawe had suddenly reappeared in my life. But no sooner was 
his name mentioned than he had vanished again. He was mar-
ried,  he  had  been  living  in  New  York—and  I  knew  nothing 
about him anymore. Selﬁshly, I felt hurt that he had not both-
ered to get in touch with me. A phone call, a postcard, a drink 
to catch up on old times—it would not have been difﬁcult to 
arrange. But the fault was equally my own. I knew where Fan-
shawe’s mother lived, and if I had wanted to ﬁnd him, I could 
easily  have  asked  her.  The  fact  was  that  I  had  let  go  of  Fan-
shawe. His life had stopped the moment we went our separate 
ways, and he belonged to the past for me now, not to the pres-
ent. He was a ghost I carried around inside me, a prehistoric ﬁg-
ment, a thing that was no longer real. I tried to remember the 
last time I had seen him, but nothing was clear. My mind wan-
dered for several minutes and then stopped short, ﬁxing on the 
day his father died. We were in high school then and could not 
have been more than seventeen years old. 

I called Sophie Fanshawe and told her I would be glad to see 
her whenever it was convenient. We decided on the following day, 
and she sounded grateful, even though I explained to her that I 
had not heard from Fanshawe and had no idea where he was. 

She lived in a red-brick tenement in Chelsea, an old walk-up 
building with gloomy stairwells and peeling paint on the walls. 
I  climbed  the  ﬁve  ﬂights  to  her  ﬂoor,  accompanied  by  the 
sounds of radios and squabbles and ﬂushing toilets that came 
from the apartments on the way up, paused to catch my breath, 
and then knocked. An eye looked through the peephole in the 
door, there was a clatter of bolts being turned, and then Sophie 
Fanshawe was standing before me, holding a small baby in her 
left arm. As she smiled at me and invited me in, the baby tugged 

the locked room 

197 

at her long brown hair. She ducked away gently from the at-
tack,  took  hold  of  the  child  with  her  two  hands,  and  turned 
him face front towards me. This was Ben, she said, Fanshawe’s 
son, and he had been born just three-and-a-half months ago. I 
pretended to admire the baby, who was waving his arms and 
drooling whitish spittle down his chin, but I was more inter-
ested in his mother. Fanshawe had been lucky. The woman was 
beautiful,  with  dark,  intelligent  eyes,  almost  ﬁerce  in  their 
steadiness. Thin, not more than average height, and with some-
thing slow in her manner, a thing that made her both sensual 
and watchful, as though she looked out on the world from the 
heart  of  a  deep  inner  vigilance.  No  man  would  have  left  this 
woman  of  his  own  free  will—especially  not  when  she  was 
about to have his child. That much was certain to me. Even be-
fore I stepped into the apartment, I knew that Fanshawe had to 
be dead. 

It  was  a  small  railroad  ﬂat  with  four  rooms,  sparsely  fur-
nished, with one room set aside for books and a work table, an-
other  that  served  as  the  living  room,  and  the  last  two  for 
sleeping. The place was well-ordered, shabby in its details, but 
on  the  whole  not  uncomfortable.  If  nothing  else,  it  proved 
that Fanshawe had not spent his time making money. But I was 
not one to look down my nose at shabbiness. My own apartment 
was even more cramped and dark than this one, and I knew what 
it was to struggle each month to come up with the rent. 

Sophie Fanshawe gave me a chair to sit in, made me a cup of 
coffee, and then sat down on the tattered blue sofa. With the baby 
on her lap, she told me the story of Fanshawe’s disappearance. 

They had met in New York three years ago. Within a month 
they had moved in together, and less than a year after that they 
were married. Fanshawe was not an easy man to live with, she 
said, but she loved him, and there had never been anything in his 
behavior  to  suggest  that  he  did  not  love  her.  They  had  been 
happy  together;  he  had  been  looking  forward  to  the  birth  of 
the baby;  there  was  no  bad  blood  between  them.  One  day  in 
April he told her that he was going to New Jersey for the after-
noon to see his mother, and then he did not come back. When 
Sophie called her mother-in-law late that night, she learned that 

198 

the new york trilogy 

Fanshawe had never made the visit. Nothing like this had ever 
happened before, but Sophie decided to wait it out. She didn’t 
want to be one of those wives who panicked whenever her hus-
band failed to show up, and she knew that Fanshawe needed 
more breathing room than most men. She even decided not to 
ask  any  questions  when  he  returned  home.  But  then  a  week 
went by, and then another week, and at last she went to the po-
lice. As she expected, they were not overly concerned about her 
problem. Unless there was evidence of a crime, there was little 
they could do. Husbands, after all, deserted their wives every 
day, and most of them did not want to be found. The police 
made a few routine inquiries, came up with nothing, and then 
suggested that she hire a private detective. With the help of her 
mother-in-law, who offered to pay the costs, she engaged the 
services of a man named Quinn. Quinn worked doggedly on 
the case for ﬁve or six weeks, but in the end he begged off, not 
wanting to take any more of their money. He told Sophie that 
Fanshawe was most likely still in the country, but whether alive 
or dead he could not say. Quinn was no charlatan. Sophie found 
him  sympathetic,  a  man  who  genuinely  wanted  to  help,  and 
when he came to her that last day she realized it was impossible 
to argue against his verdict. There was nothing to be done. If 
Fanshawe had decided to leave her, he would not have stolen 
off without a word. It was not like him to shy away from the 
truth, to back down from unpleasant confrontations. His disap-
pearance could therefore mean only one thing: that some terri-
ble harm had come to him. 

Still, Sophie went on hoping that something would turn up. 
She had read about cases of amnesia, and for a while this took 
hold of her as a desperate possibility: the thought of Fanshawe 
staggering  around  somewhere  not  knowing  who  he  was, 
robbed of his life but nevertheless alive, perhaps on the verge of 
returning to himself at any moment. More weeks passed, and 
then the end of her pregnancy began to approach. The baby was 
due in less than a month—which meant that it could come at 
any time—and little by little the unborn child began to take up 
all her thoughts, as though there was no more room inside her 
for  Fanshawe.  These  were  the  words  she  used  to  describe  the 

the locked room 

199 

feeling—no more room inside her—and then she went on to say 
that this probably meant that in spite of everything she was an-
gry at Fanshawe, angry at him for having abandoned her, even 
though it wasn’t his fault. This statement struck me as brutally 
honest. I had never heard anyone talk about personal feelings 
like that—so unsparingly, with such disregard for conventional 
pieties—and as I write this now, I realize that even on that ﬁrst 
day I had slipped through a hole in the earth, that I was falling 
into a place where I had never been before. 

One morning, Sophie continued, she woke up after a difﬁcult 
night  and  understood  that  Fanshawe  would  not  be  coming 
back. It was a sudden, absolute truth, never again to be ques-
tioned. She cried then, and went on crying for a week, mourn-
ing Fanshawe as though he were dead. When the tears stopped, 
however, she found herself without regrets. Fanshawe had been 
given to her for a number of years, she decided, and that was 
all. Now there was the child to think about, and nothing else re-
ally mattered. She knew this sounded rather pompous—but the 
fact was that she continued to live with this sense of things, and 
it continued to make life possible for her. 

I asked her a series of questions, and she answered each one 
calmly, deliberately, as though making an effort not to color the 
responses with her own feelings. How they had lived, for exam-
ple,  and  what  work  Fanshawe  had  done,  and  what  had  hap-
pened to him in the years since I had last seen him. The baby 
started fussing on the sofa, and without any pause in the con-
versation,  Sophie  opened  her  blouse  and  nursed  him,  ﬁrst  on 
one breast and then on the other. 

She could not be sure of anything prior to her ﬁrst meeting 
with Fanshawe, she said. She knew that he had dropped out of 
college after two years, had managed to get a deferment from 
the army, and wound up working on a ship of some sort for a 
while. An oil tanker, she thought, or perhaps a freighter. After 
that, he had lived in France for several years—ﬁrst in Paris, then 
as the caretaker of a farmhouse in the South. But all this was 
quite dim to her, since Fanshawe had never talked much about 
the past. At the time they met, he had not been back in America 
more than eight or ten months. They literally bumped into each 

200 

the new york trilogy 

other—the two of them standing by the door of a Manhattan 
bookshop  one  wet  Saturday  afternoon,  looking  through  the 
window and waiting for the rain to stop. That was the begin-
ning, and from that day until the day Fanshawe disappeared, 
they had been together nearly all the time. 

Fanshawe had never had any regular work, she said, nothing 
that  could  be  called  a  real  job.  Money  didn’t  mean  much  to 
him, and he tried to think about it as little as possible. In the 
years before he met Sophie, he had done all kinds of things—the 
stint in the merchant marine, working in a warehouse, tutoring, 
ghost writing, waiting on tables, painting apartments, hauling 
furniture for a moving company—but each job was temporary, 
and once he had earned enough to keep himself going for a few 
months, he would quit. When he and Sophie began living to-
gether, Fanshawe did not work at all. She had a job teaching 
music  in  a  private  school,  and  her  salary  could  support  them 
both. They had to be careful, of course, but there was always 
food on the table, and neither of them had any complaints. 

I did not interrupt. It seemed clear to me that this catalogue 
was only a beginning, details to be disposed of before turning 
to the business at hand. Whatever Fanshawe had done with his 
life, it had little connection with this list of odd jobs. I knew this 
immediately, in advance of anything that was said. We were not 
talking about just anyone, after all. This was Fanshawe, and the 
past was not so remote that I could not remember who he was. 
Sophie smiled when she saw that I was ahead of her, that I 
knew what was coming. I think she had expected me to know, 
and this merely conﬁrmed that expectation, erasing any doubts 
she might have had about asking me to come. I knew without 
having to be told, and that gave me the right to be there, to be 
listening to what she had to say. 

“He went on with his writing,” I said. “He became a writer, 

didn’t he?” 

Sophie nodded. That was exactly it. Or part of it, in any case. 
What puzzled me was why I had never heard of him. If Fan-
shawe  was  a  writer,  then  surely  I  would  have  run  across  his 
name  somewhere.  It  was  my  business  to  know  about  these 
things,  and  it  seemed  unlikely  that  Fanshawe,  of  all  people, 

the locked room 

201 

would have escaped my attention. I wondered if he had been 
unable to ﬁnd a publisher for his work. It was the only question 
that seemed logical. 

No, Sophie said, it was more complicated than that. He had 
never  tried  to  publish.  At  ﬁrst,  when  he  was  very  young,  he 
was too timid to send anything out, feeling that his work was 
not  good  enough.  But  even  later,  when  his  conﬁdence  had 
grown,  he  discovered  that  he  preferred  to  stay  in  hiding.  It 
would  distract  him  to  start  looking  for  a  publisher,  he  told 
her, and when it came right down to it, he would much rather 
spend his time on the work itself. Sophie was upset by this in-
difference, but whenever she pressed him about it, he would 
answer with a shrug: there’s no rush, sooner or later he would 
get around to it. 

Once or twice, she actually thought of taking matters into her 
own hands and smuggling a manuscript out to a publisher, but 
she never went through with it. There were rules in a marriage 
that couldn’t be broken, and no matter how wrong-headed his 
attitude  was,  she  had  little  choice  but  to  go  along  with  him. 
There was a great quantity of work, she said, and it maddened 
her to think of it just sitting there in the closet, but Fanshawe 
deserved her loyalty, and she did her best to say nothing. 

One day, about three or four months before he disappeared, 
Fanshawe came to her with a compromise gesture. He gave her 
his  word  that  he  would  do  something  about  it  within  a  year, 
and to prove that he meant it, he told her that if for any reason 
he failed to keep up his end of the bargain, she was to take all 
his  manuscripts  to  me  and  put  them  in  my  hands.  I  was  the 
guardian of his work, he said, and it was up to me to decide 
what should happen to it. If I thought it was worth publishing, 
he would give in to my judgment. Furthermore, he said, if any-
thing should happen to him in the meantime, she was to give me 
the manuscripts at once and allow me to make all the arrange-
ments, with the understanding that I would receive twenty-ﬁve 
percent of any money the work happened to earn. If I thought 
his writings were not worth publishing, however, then I should 
return the manuscripts to Sophie, and she was to destroy them, 
right down to the last page. 

202 

the new york trilogy 

These pronouncements startled her, Sophie said, and she al-
most  laughed  at  Fanshawe  for  being  so  solemn  about  it.  The 
whole scene was out of character for him, and she wondered if 
it didn’t have something to do with the fact that she had just be-
come pregnant. Perhaps the idea of fatherhood had sobered him 
into  a  new  sense  of  responsibility;  perhaps  he  was  so  deter-
mined to prove his good intentions that he had overstated the 
case. Whatever the reason, she found herself glad that he had 
changed his mind. As her pregnancy advanced, she even began 
to have secret dreams of Fanshawe’s success, hoping that she 
would be able to quit her job and raise the child without any ﬁ-
nancial  pressure.  Everything  had  gone  wrong,  of  course,  and 
Fanshawe’s work was soon forgotten, lost in the turmoil that 
followed his disappearance. Later, when the dust began to set-
tle, she had resisted carrying out his instructions—for fear that 
it would jinx any chance she had of seeing him again. But even-
tually she gave in, knowing that Fanshawe’s word had to be re-
spected. That was why she had written to me. That was why I 
was sitting with her now. 

For  my  part,  I  didn’t  know  how  to  react.  The  proposition 
had  caught  me  off  guard,  and  for  a  minute  or  two  I  just  sat 
there, wrestling with the enormous thing that had been thrust 
at me. As far as I could tell, there was no earthly reason for Fan-
shawe  to  have  chosen  me  for  this  job.  I  had  not  seen  him  in 
more than ten years, and I was almost surprised to learn that he 
still remembered who I was. How could I be expected to take 
on such a responsibility—to stand in judgment of a man and 
say whether his life had been worth living? Sophie tried to ex-
plain. Fanshawe had not been in touch, she said, but he had of-
ten talked to her about me, and each time my name had been 
mentioned, I was described as his best friend in the world—the 
one true friend he had ever had. He had also managed to keep 
up with my work, always buying the magazines in which my 
articles appeared, and sometimes even reading the pieces aloud 
to her. He admired what I did, Sophie said; he was proud of me, 
and he felt that I had it in me to do something great. 

All this praise embarrassed me. There was so much intensity 
in Sophie’s voice, I somehow felt that Fanshawe was speaking 

the locked room 

203 

through her, telling me these things with his own lips. I admit 
that I was ﬂattered, and no doubt that was a natural feeling un-
der the circumstances. I was having a hard time of it just then, 
and the fact was that I did not share this high opinion of myself. 
I had written a great many articles, it was true, but I did not see 
that as a cause for celebration, nor was I particularly proud of 
it. As far as I was concerned, it was just a little short of hack 
work. I had begun with great hopes, thinking that I would be-
come  a  novelist,  thinking  that  I  would  eventually  be  able  to 
write something that would touch people and make a difference 
in their lives. But time went on, and little by little I realized that 
this was not going to happen. I did not have such a book inside 
me, and at a certain point I told myself to give up my dreams. It 
was simpler to go on writing articles in any case. By working 
hard,  by  moving  steadily  from  one  piece  to  the  next,  I  could 
more or less earn a living—and, for whatever it was worth, I 
had the pleasure of seeing my name in print almost constantly. 
I understood that things could have been far more dismal than 
they were. I was not quite thirty, and already I had something 
of a reputation. I had begun with reviews of poetry and novels, 
and  now  I  could  write  about  nearly  anything  and  do  a  cred-
itable job. Movies, plays, art shows, concerts, books, even base-
ball games—they had only to ask me, and I would do it. The 
world saw me as a bright young fellow, a new critic on the rise, 
but inside myself I felt old, already used up. What I had done so 
far  amounted  to  a  mere  fraction  of  nothing  at  all.  It  was  so 
much dust, and the slightest wind would blow it away. 

Fanshawe’s  praise,  therefore,  left  me  with  mixed  feelings. 
On  the  one  hand,  I  knew  that  he  was  wrong.  On  the  other 
hand (and this is where it gets murky), I wanted to believe that 
he was right. I thought: is it possible that I’ve been too hard on 
myself? And once I began to think that, I was lost. But who 
wouldn’t jump at the chance to redeem himself—what man is 
strong  enough  to  reject  the  possibility  of  hope?  The  thought 
ﬂickered through me that I could one day be resurrected in my 
own eyes, and I felt a sudden burst of friendship for Fanshawe 
across  the  years,  across  all  the  silence  of  the  years  that  had 
kept us apart. 

204 

the new york trilogy 

That was how it happened. I succumbed to the ﬂattery of a 
man who wasn’t there, and in that moment of weakness I said 
yes. I’ll be glad to read the work, I said, and do whatever I can 
to help. Sophie smiled at this—whether from happiness or dis-
appointment  I  could  never  tell—and  then  stood  up  from  the 
sofa and carried the baby into the next room. She stopped in 
front of a tall oak cupboard, unlatched the door, and let it swing 
open on its hinges. There you are, she said. There were boxes 
and binders and folders and notebooks cramming the shelves— 
more  things  than  I  would  have  thought  possible.  I  remember 
laughing  with  embarrassment  and  making  some  feeble  joke. 
Then, all business, we discussed the best way for me to carry 
the  manuscripts  out  of  the  apartment,  eventually  deciding  on 
two large suitcases. It took the better part of an hour, but in the 
end we managed to squeeze everything in. Clearly, I said, it was 
going to take me some time to sift through all the material. So-
phie told me not to worry, and then she apologized for burden-
ing me with such a job. I said that I understood, that there was 
no way she could have refused to carry out Fanshawe’s request. 
It was all very dramatic, and at the same time gruesome, almost 
comical. The beautiful Sophie delicately put the baby down on 
the ﬂoor, gave me a great hug of thanks, and then kissed me on 
the cheek. For a moment I thought she was going to cry, but the 
moment passed and there were no tears. Then I hauled the two 
suitcases slowly down the stairs and onto the street. Together, 
they were as heavy as a man. 

2 

The truth is far less simple than I would like it to be. That I 
loved Fanshawe, that he was my closest friend, that I knew him 
better than anyone else—these are facts, and nothing I say can 
ever  diminish  them.  But  that  is  only  a  beginning,  and  in  my 
struggle to remember things as they really were, I see now that 
I also held back from Fanshawe, that a part of me always resis-
ted him. Especially as we grew older, I do not think I was ever 
entirely  comfortable  in  his  presence.  If  envy  is  too  strong  a 
word for what I am trying to say, then I would call it a suspi-
cion, a secret feeling that Fanshawe was somehow better than I 
was.  All  this  was  unknown  to  me  at  the  time,  and  there  was 
never anything speciﬁc that I could point to. Yet the feeling lin-
gered that there was more innate goodness in him than in oth-
ers, that some unquenchable ﬁre was keeping him alive, that he 
was more truly himself than I could ever hope to be. 

Early on, his inﬂuence was already quite pronounced. This 
extended even to very small things. If Fanshawe wore his belt 
buckle on the side of his pants, then I would move my belt into 
the same position. If Fanshawe came to the playground wearing 
black  sneakers,  then  I  would  ask  for  black  sneakers  the  next 
time my mother took me to the shoe store. If Fanshawe brought 
a copy of Robinson Crusoe with him to school, then I would 
begin reading Robinson Crusoe that same evening at home. I 
was not the only one who behaved like this, but I was perhaps 
the  most  devoted,  the  one  who  gave  in  most  willingly  to  the 
power he held over us. Fanshawe himself was not aware of that 
power, and no doubt that was the reason he continued to hold 
it. He was indifferent to the attention he received, calmly going 

206 

the new york trilogy 

about his business, never using his inﬂuence to manipulate oth-
ers. He did not play the pranks the rest of us did; he did not 
make  mischief;  he  did  not  get  into  trouble  with  the  teachers. 
But no one held this against him. Fanshawe stood apart from 
us, and yet he was the one who held us together, the one we ap-
proached to arbitrate our disputes, the one we could count on 
to  be  fair  and  to  cut  through  our  petty  quarrels.  There  was 
something so attractive about him that you always wanted him 
beside you, as if you could live within his sphere and be touched 
by what he was. He was there for you, and yet at the same time 
he was inaccessible. You felt there was a secret core in him that 
could never be penetrated, a mysterious center of hiddenness. 
To imitate him was somehow to participate in that mystery, but 
it was also to understand that you could never really know him. 
I am talking about our very early childhood—as far back as 
ﬁve, six, seven years old. Much of it is buried now, and I know 
that even memories can be false. Still, I don’t think I would be 
wrong in saying that I have kept the aura of those days inside 
me, and to the extent that I can feel what I felt then, I doubt 
those feelings can lie. Whatever it was that Fanshawe eventually 
became,  my  sense  is  that  it  started  for  him  back  then.  He 
formed  himself  very  quickly,  was  already  a  sharply  deﬁned 
presence by the time we started school. Fanshawe was visible, 
whereas  the  rest  of  us  were  creatures  without  shape,  in  the 
throes  of  constant  tumult,  ﬂoundering  blindly  from  one  mo-
ment to the next. I don’t mean to say that he grew up fast—he 
never seemed older than he was—but that he was already him-
self before he grew up. For one reason or another, he never be-
came  subject  to  the  same  upheavals  as  the  rest  of  us.  His 
dramas  were  of  a  different  order—more  internal,  no  doubt 
more brutal—but with none of the abrupt changes that seemed 
to punctuate everyone else’s life. 

One incident is particularly vivid to me. It concerns a birth-
day  party  that  Fanshawe  and  I  were  invited  to  in  the  ﬁrst  or 
second grade, which means that it falls at the very beginning of 
the period I am able to talk about with any precision. It was a 
Saturday afternoon in spring, and we walked to the party with 
another boy, a friend of ours named Dennis Walden. Dennis had 

the locked room 

207 

a much harder life than either of us did: an alcoholic mother, an 
overworked father, innumerable brothers and sisters. I had been 
to his house two or three times—a great, dark ruin of a place— 
and I can remember being frightened by his mother, who made 
me think of a fairy tale witch. She would spend the whole day 
behind the closed door of her room, always in her bathrobe, her 
pale face a nightmare of wrinkles, poking her head out every 
now and then to scream something at the children. On the day 
of the party, Fanshawe and I had been duly equipped with pres-
ents to give the birthday boy, all wrapped in colorful paper and 
tied  with  ribbons.  Dennis,  however,  had  nothing,  and  he  felt 
bad about it. I can remember trying to console him with some 
empty phrase or other: it didn’t matter, no one really cared, in 
all the confusion it wouldn’t be noticed. But Dennis did care, 
and that was what Fanshawe immediately understood. Without 
any explanation, he turned to Dennis and handed him his pres-
ent.  Here,  he  said,  take  this  one—I’ll  tell  them  I  left  mine  at 
home. My ﬁrst reaction was to think that Dennis would resent 
the gesture, that he would feel insulted by Fanshawe’s pity. But 
I was wrong. He hesitated for a moment, trying to absorb this 
sudden change of fortune, and then nodded his head, as if ac-
knowledging the wisdom of what Fanshawe had done. It was 
not an act of charity so much as an act of justice, and for that 
reason Dennis was able to accept it without humiliating him-
self.  The  one  thing  had  been  turned  into  the  other.  It  was  a 
piece of magic, a combination of off-handedness and total con-
viction,  and  I  doubt  that  anyone  but  Fanshawe  could  have 
pulled it off. 

After the party, I went back with Fanshawe to his house. His 
mother was there, sitting in the kitchen, and she asked us about 
the party and whether the birthday boy had liked the present 
she had bought for him. Before Fanshawe had a chance to say 
anything, I blurted out the story of what he had done. I had no 
intention of getting him into trouble, but it was impossible for 
me to keep it to myself. Fanshawe’s gesture had opened up a 
whole new world for me: the way someone could enter the feel-
ings of another and take them on so completely that his own 
were no longer important. It was the ﬁrst truly moral act I had 

208 

the new york trilogy 

witnessed, and nothing else seemed worth talking about. Fan-
shawe’s mother was not so enthusiastic, however. Yes, she said, 
that  was  a  kind  and  generous  thing  to  do,  but  it  was  also 
wrong. The present had cost her money, and by giving it away 
Fanshawe had in some sense stolen that money from her. On 
top  of  that,  Fanshawe  had  acted  impolitely  by  showing  up 
without a present—which reﬂected badly on her, since she was 
the one responsible for his actions. Fanshawe listened carefully 
to his mother and did not say a word. After she was ﬁnished, he 
still did not speak, and she asked him if he understood. Yes, he 
said, he understood. It probably would have ended there, but 
then, after a short pause, Fanshawe went on to say that he still 
thought he was right. It didn’t matter to him how she felt: he 
would do the same thing again the next time. A scene followed 
this little exchange. Mrs. Fanshawe became angry at his imper-
tinence, but Fanshawe stuck to his guns, refusing to budge un-
der the barrage of her reprimands. Eventually, he was ordered 
to his room and I was told to leave the house. I was appalled by 
his mother’s unfairness, but when I tried to speak up in his de-
fense, Fanshawe waved me off. Rather than protest anymore, 
he took his punishment silently and disappeared into his room. 
The whole episode was pure Fanshawe: the spontaneous act 
of goodness, the unswerving belief in what he had done, and 
the mute, almost passive giving in to its consequences. No mat-
ter how remarkable his behavior was, you always felt that he 
was detached from it. More than anything else, it was this qual-
ity that sometimes scared me away from him. I would get so 
close to Fanshawe, would admire him so intensely, would want 
so  desperately  to  measure  up  to  him—and  then,  suddenly,  a 
moment would come when I realized that he was alien to me, 
that the way he lived inside himself could never correspond to 
the way I needed to live. I wanted too much of things, I had too 
many desires, I lived too fully in the grip of the immediate ever 
to attain such indifference. It mattered to me that I do well, that 
I  impress  people  with  the  empty  signs  of  my  ambition:  good 
grades, varsity letters, awards for whatever it was they were judg-
ing us  on  that  week.  Fanshawe  remained  aloof  from  all  that, 
quietly  standing  in  his  corner,  paying  no  attention.  If  he  did 

the locked room 

209 

well, it was always in spite of himself, with no struggle, no ef-
fort, no stake in the thing he had done. This posture could be 
unnerving, and it took me a long time to learn that what was 
good for Fanshawe was not necessarily good for me. 

I do not want to exaggerate, however. If Fanshawe and I even-
tually  had  our  differences,  what  I  remember  most  about  our 
childhood is the passion of our friendship. We lived next door 
to each other, and our fenceless backyards merged into an un-
broken stretch of lawn, gravel, and dirt, as though we belonged 
to the same household. Our mothers were close friends, our fa-
thers were tennis partners, neither one of us had a brother: ideal 
conditions  therefore,  with  nothing  to  stand  between  us.  We 
were born less than a week apart and spent our babyhoods in 
the backyard together, exploring the grass on all fours, tearing 
apart the ﬂowers, standing up and taking our ﬁrst steps on the 
same day. (There are photographs to document this.) Later, we 
learned baseball and football in the backyard together. We built 
our forts, played our games, invented our worlds in the back-
yard, and still later, there were our rambles through the town, 
the long afternoons on our bicycles, the endless conversations. 
It would be impossible, I think, for me to know anyone as well 
as I knew Fanshawe then. My mother recalls that we were so at-
tached to each other that once, when we were six, we asked her 
if it was possible for men to get married. We wanted to live to-
gether when we grew up, and who else but married people did 
that? Fanshawe was going to be an astronomer, and I was going 
to be a vet. We were thinking of a big house in the country—a 
place where the sky would be dark enough at night to see all the 
stars and where there would be no shortage of animals to take 
care of. 

In retrospect, I ﬁnd it natural that Fanshawe should have be-
come a writer. The severity of his inwardness almost seemed to 
demand it. Even in grammar school he was composing little sto-
ries, and I doubt there was ever a time after the age of ten or 
eleven when he did not think of himself as a writer. In the be-
ginning, of course, it didn’t seem to mean much. Poe and Steven-
son  were  his  models,  and  what  came  out  of  it  was  the  usual 
boyish claptrap: “One night, in the year of our Lord seventeen 

210 

the new york trilogy 

hundred and ﬁfty-one, I was walking through a murderous bliz-
zard toward the house of my ancestors, when I chanced upon a 
spectre-like ﬁgure in the snow.” That kind of thing, ﬁlled with 
overblown  phrases  and  extravagant  turns  of  plot.  In  the  sixth 
grade, I remember, Fanshawe wrote a short detective novel of 
about ﬁfty pages, which the teacher let him read to the class in 
ten-minute installments each day at the end of school. We were 
all  proud  of  Fanshawe  and  surprised  by  the  dramatic  way  he 
read, acting out the parts of each of the characters. The story es-
capes me now, but I recall that it was inﬁnitely complex, with 
the outcome hinging on something like the confused identities of 
two sets of twins. 

Fanshawe  was  not  a  bookish  child,  however.  He  was  too 
good at games for that, too central a ﬁgure among us to retreat 
into himself. All through those early years, one had the impres-
sion there was nothing he did not do well, nothing he did not 
do better than everyone else. He was the best baseball player, 
the best student, the best looking of all the boys. Any one of 
these  things  would  have  been  enough  to  give  him  special 
status—but together they made him seem heroic, a child who 
had been touched by the gods. Extraordinary as he was, how-
ever, he remained one of us. Fanshawe was not a boy-genius or 
a prodigy; he did not have any miraculous gift that would have 
set him apart from the children his own age. He was a perfectly 
normal  child—but  more  so,  if  that  is  possible,  more  in  har-
mony with himself, more ideally a normal child than any of the 
rest of us. 

At heart, the Fanshawe I knew was not a bold person. Never-
theless, there were times when he shocked me by his willingness 
to jump into dangerous situations. Behind all the surface com-
posure,  there  seemed  to  be  a  great  darkness:  an  urge  to  test 
himself, to take risks, to haunt the edges of things. As a boy, he 
had a passion for playing around construction sites, clambering 
up ladders and scaffolds, balancing on planks over an abyss of 
machinery,  sandbags,  and  mud.  I  would  hover  in  the  back-
ground as Fanshawe performed these stunts, silently imploring 
him to stop, but never saying anything—wanting to go, but afraid 
to lest he should fall. As time went on, these impulses became 

the locked room 

211 

more articulate. Fanshawe would talk to me about the impor-
tance  of  “tasting  life.”  Making  things  hard  for  yourself,  he 
said,  searching  out  the  unknown—this  was  what  he  wanted, 
and more and more as he got older. Once, when we were about 
ﬁfteen,  he  persuaded  me  to  spend  the  weekend  with  him  in 
New York—roaming the streets, sleeping on a bench in the old 
Penn Station, talking to bums, seeing how long we could last 
without eating. I remember getting drunk at seven o’clock on 
Sunday morning in Central Park and puking all over the grass. 
For Fanshawe this was essential business—another step toward 
proving  oneself—but  for  me  it  was  only  sordid,  a  miserable 
lapse into something I was not. Still, I continued to go along 
with  him,  a  befuddled  witness,  sharing  in  the  quest  but  not 
quite part of it, an adolescent Sancho astride my donkey, watch-
ing my friend do battle with himself. 

A month or two after our weekend on the bum, Fanshawe 
took me to a brothel in New York (a friend of his arranged the 
visit), and it was there that we lost our virginity. I remember a 
small brownstone apartment on the Upper West Side near the 
river—a kitchenette and one dark bedroom with a ﬂimsy cur-
tain hanging between them. There were two black women in 
the  place,  one  fat  and  old,  the  other  young  and  pretty.  Since 
neither one of us wanted the older woman, we had to decide 
who would go ﬁrst. If memory serves, we actually went into the 
hall and ﬂipped a coin. Fanshawe won, of course, and two min-
utes later I found myself sitting in the little kitchen with the fat 
madam. She called me sugar, reminding me every so often that 
she was still available, in case I had a change of heart. I was too 
nervous to do anything but shake my head, and then I just sat 
there,  listening  to  Fanshawe’s  intense  and  rapid  breathing 
on the other side of the curtain. I could only think about one 
thing: that my dick was about to go into the same place that 
Fanshawe’s was now. Then it was my turn, and to this day I 
have no idea what the girl’s name was. She was the ﬁrst naked 
woman  I  had  seen  in  the  ﬂesh,  and  she  was  so  casual  and 
friendly about her nakedness that things might have gone well 
for me if I hadn’t been distracted by Fanshawe’s shoes—visible 
in the gap between the curtain and the ﬂoor, shining in the light 

212 

the new york trilogy 

of the kitchen, as if detached from his body. The girl was sweet 
and did her best to help me, but it was a long struggle, and even at 
the end I felt no real pleasure. Afterward, when Fanshawe and I 
walked out into the twilight, I didn’t have much to say for myself. 
Fanshawe, however, seemed rather content, as if the experience 
had somehow conﬁrmed his theory about tasting life. I realized 
then that Fanshawe was much hungrier than I could ever be. 

We led a sheltered life out there in the suburbs. New York 
was only twenty miles away, but it could have been China for 
all  it  had  to  do  with  our  little  world  of  lawns  and  wooden 
houses. By the time he was thirteen or fourteen, Fanshawe be-
came a kind of internal exile, going through the motions of du-
tiful behavior, but cut off from his surroundings, contemptuous 
of the life he was forced to live. He did not make himself difﬁ-
cult  or  outwardly  rebellious,  he  simply  withdrew.  After  com-
manding so much attention as a child, always standing at the 
exact  center  of  things,  Fanshawe  almost  disappeared  by  the 
time we reached high school, shunning the spotlight for a stub-
born marginality. I knew that he was writing seriously by then 
(although  by  the  age  of  sixteen  he  had  stopped  showing  his 
work to anyone), but I take that more as a symptom than as a 
cause. In our sophomore year, for example, Fanshawe was the 
only member of our class to make the varsity baseball team. He 
played extremely well for several weeks, and then, for no ap-
parent reason, quit the team. I remember listening to him de-
scribe the incident to me the day after it happened: walking into 
the coach’s ofﬁce after practice and turning in his uniform. The 
coach had just taken his shower, and when Fanshawe entered 
the room he was standing by his desk stark naked, a cigar in his 
mouth and his baseball cap on his head. Fanshawe took plea-
sure in the description, dwelling on the absurdity of the scene, 
embellishing  it  with  details  about  the  coach’s  squat,  pudgy 
body,  the  light  in  the  room,  the  puddle  of  water  on  the  gray 
concrete ﬂoor—but that was all it was, a description, a string of 
words divorced from anything that might have concerned Fan-
shawe  himself.  I  was  disappointed  that  he  had  quit,  but  Fan-
shawe never really explained what he had done, except to say 
that he found baseball boring. 

the locked room 

213 

As with many gifted people, a moment came when Fanshawe 
was  no  longer  satisﬁed  with  doing  what  came  easily  to  him. 
Having mastered all that was demanded of him at an early age, 
it was probably natural that he should begin to look for chal-
lenges  elsewhere.  Given  the  limitations  of  his  life  as  a  high 
school student in a small town, the fact that he found that else-
where inside himself is neither surprising nor unusual. But there 
was  more  to  it  than  that,  I  believe.  Things  happened  around 
that time in Fanshawe’s family that no doubt made a difference, 
and  it  would  be  wrong  not  to  mention  them.  Whether  they 
made an essential difference is another story, but I tend to think 
that everything counts. In the end, each life is no more than the 
sum of contingent facts, a chronicle of chance intersections, of 
ﬂukes,  of  random  events  that  divulge  nothing  but  their  own 
lack of purpose. 

When Fanshawe was sixteen, it was discovered that his father 
had cancer. For a year and a half he watched his father die, and 
during  that  time  the  family  slowly  unravelled.  Fanshawe’s 
mother was perhaps hardest hit. Stoically keeping up appear-
ances, attending to the business of medical consultations, ﬁnan-
cial  arrangements,  and  trying  to  maintain  the  household,  she 
swung ﬁtfully between great optimism over the chances of re-
covery and a kind of paralytic despair. According to Fanshawe, 
she  was  never  able  to  accept  the  one  inevitable  fact  that  kept 
staring her in the face. She knew what was going to happen, 
but she did not have the strength to admit that she knew, and as 
time went on she began to live as though she were holding her 
breath.  Her  behavior  became  more  and  more  eccentric:  all-
night  binges  of  manic  house  cleaning,  a  fear  of  being  in  the 
house  alone  (combined  with  sudden,  unexplained  absences 
from the house), and a whole range of imagined ailments (aller-
gies,  high  blood  pressure,  dizzy  spells).  Toward  the  end,  she 
started  taking  an  interest  in  various  crackpot  theories— 
astrology, psychic phenomena, vague spiritualist notions about 
the soul—until it became impossible to talk to her without be-
ing worn down to silence as she lectured on the corruption of 
the human body. 

Relations  between  Fanshawe  and  his  mother  became  tense. 

214 

the new york trilogy 

She clung to him for support, acting as though the family’s pain 
belonged only to her. Fanshawe had to be the solid one in the 
house; not only did he have to take care of himself, he had to 
assume responsibility for his sister, who was just twelve at the 
time.  But  this  brought  with  it  another  set  of  problems—for 
Ellen was a troubled, unstable child, and in the parental void 
that ensued from the illness she began to look to Fanshawe for 
everything.  He  became  her  father,  her  mother,  her  bastion  of 
wisdom and comfort. Fanshawe understood how unhealthy her 
dependence on him was, but there was little he could do about it 
short of hurting her in some irreparable way. I remember how 
my own mother would talk about “poor Jane” (Mrs. Fanshawe) 
and  how  terrible  the  whole  thing  was  for  the  “baby.”  But  I 
knew  that  in  some  sense  it  was  Fanshawe  who  suffered  the 
most. It was just that he never got a chance to show it. 

As for Fanshawe’s father, there is little I can say with any cer-
tainty. He was a cipher to me, a silent man of abstracted benev-
olence, and I never got to know him well. Whereas my father 
tended  to  be  around  a  lot,  especially  on  the  weekends,  Fan-
shawe’s father was rarely to be seen. He was a lawyer of some 
prominence, and at one time he had had political ambitions— 
but these had ended in a series of disappointments. He usually 
worked  until  late,  pulling  into  the  driveway  at  eight  or  nine 
o’clock, and often spent Saturday and part of Sunday at his of-
ﬁce. I doubt that he ever knew quite what to make of his son, 
for he seemed to be a man with little feeling for children, some-
one who had lost all memory of having been a child himself. 
Mr.  Fanshawe  was  so  thoroughly  adult,  so  completely  im-
mersed in serious, grown-up matters, that I imagine it was hard 
for him not to think of us as creatures from another world. 

He was not yet ﬁfty when he died. For the last six months of 
his life, after the doctors had given up hope of saving him, he 
lay in the spare bedroom of the Fanshawe house, watching the 
yard through the window, reading an occasional book, taking 
his pain-killers, dozing. Fanshawe spent most of his free time 
with him then, and though I can only speculate on what hap-
pened, I assume that things changed between them. At the very 
least,  I  know  how  hard  he  worked  at  it,  often  staying  home 

the locked room 

215 

from school to be with him, trying to make himself indispensa-
ble, nursing him with unﬂinching attentiveness. It was a grim 
thing for Fanshawe to go through, too much for him perhaps, 
and though he seemed to take it well, summoning up the brav-
ery that is possible only in the very young, I sometimes wonder 
if he ever managed to get over it. 

There is only one more thing I want to mention here. At the 
end of this period—the very end, when no one expected Fan-
shawe’s father to last more than a few days—Fanshawe and I 
went for a drive after school. It was February, and a few min-
utes after we started, a light snow began to fall. We drove aim-
lessly, looping through some of the neighboring towns, paying 
little  attention  to  where  we  were.  Ten  or  ﬁfteen  miles  from 
home, we came upon a cemetery; the gate happened to be open, 
and  for  no  particular  reason  we  decided  to  drive  in.  After  a 
while, we stopped the car and began to wander around on foot. 
We read the inscriptions on the stones, speculated on what each 
of those lives might have been, fell silent, walked some more, 
talked,  fell  silent  again.  By  now  the  snow  was  coming  down 
heavily, and the ground was turning white. Somewhere in the 
middle of the cemetery there was a freshly dug grave, and Fan-
shawe and I stopped at the edge and looked down into it. I can 
remember how quiet it was, how far away the world seemed to 
be from us. For a long time neither one of us spoke, and then 
Fanshawe said that he wanted to see what it was like at the bot-
tom. I gave him my hand and held on tightly as he lowered him-
self into the grave. When his feet touched the ground he looked 
back up at me with a half-smile, and then lay down on his back, 
as though pretending to be dead. It is still completely vivid to 
me: looking down at Fanshawe as he looked up at the sky, his 
eyes blinking furiously as the snow fell onto his face. 

By some obscure train of thought, it made me think back to 
when we were very small—no more than four or ﬁve years old. 
Fanshawe’s parents had bought some new appliance, a televi-
sion perhaps, and for several months Fanshawe kept the card-
board box in his room. He had always been generous in sharing 
his toys, but this box was off limits to me, and he never let me 
go in it. It was his secret place, he told me, and when he sat 

216 

the new york trilogy 

inside  and  closed  it  up  around  him,  he  could  go  wherever  he 
wanted to go, could be wherever he wanted to be. But if an-
other person ever entered his box, then its magic would be lost 
for good. I believed this story and did not press him for a turn, 
although it nearly broke my heart. We would be playing in his 
room, quietly setting up soldiers or drawing pictures, and then, 
out of the blue, Fanshawe would announce that he was going 
into his box. I would try to go on with what I had been doing, 
but  it  was  never  any  use.  Nothing  interested  me  so  much  as 
what was happening to Fanshawe inside the box, and I would 
spend  those  minutes  desperately  trying  to  imagine  the  adven-
tures he was having. But I never learned what they were, since it 
was also against the rules for Fanshawe to talk about them after 
he climbed out. 

Something  similar  was  happening  now  in  that  open  grave 
in  the  snow.  Fanshawe  was  alone  down  there,  thinking  his 
thoughts, living through those moments by himself, and though 
I was present, the event was sealed off from me, as though I was 
not  really  there  at  all.  I  understood  that  this  was  Fanshawe’s 
way of imagining his father’s death. Again, it was a matter of 
pure chance: the open grave was there, and Fanshawe had felt it 
calling out to him. Stories happen only to those who are able to 
tell them, someone once said. In the same way, perhaps, experi-
ences  present  themselves  only  to  those  who  are  able  to  have 
them. But this is a difﬁcult point, and I can’t be sure of any of 
it.  I  stood  there  waiting  for  Fanshawe  to  come  up,  trying  to 
imagine what he was thinking, for a brief moment trying to see 
what he was seeing. Then I turned my head up to the darkening 
winter sky—and everything was a chaos of snow, rushing down 
on top of me. 

By the time we started walking back to the car, the sun had 
set. We stumbled our way through the cemetery, not saying any-
thing to each other. Several inches of snow had fallen, and it 
kept coming down, more and more heavily, as though it would 
never stop. We reached the car, climbed in, and then, against all 
our  expectations,  couldn’t  get  moving.  The  back  tires  were 
stuck in a shallow ditch, and nothing we did made any differ-
ence. We pushed, we jostled, and still the tires spun with that 

the locked room 

217 

horrible, futile noise. Half an hour went by, and then we gave 
up,  reluctantly  deciding  to  abandon  the  car.  We  hitch-hiked 
home in the storm, and another two hours went by before we ﬁ-
nally made it back. It was only then that we learned that Fan-
shawe’s father had died during the afternoon. 

3 

Several days went by before I found  the courage  to  open  the  
suitcases. I ﬁnished the article I was working on, I went to the 
movies,  I  accepted  invitations  I  normally  would  have  turned 
down. These tactics did not fool me, however. Too much de-
pended  on  my  response,  and  the  possibility  of  being  disap-
pointed was something I did not want to face. There was no 
difference in my mind between giving the order to destroy Fan-
shawe’s work and killing him with my own hands. I had been 
given the power to obliterate, to steal a body from its grave and 
tear it to pieces. It was an intolerable position to be in, and I 
wanted no part of it. As long as I left the suitcases untouched, 
my conscience would be spared. On the other hand, I had made 
a promise, and I knew that I could not delay forever. It was just 
at this point (gearing myself up, getting ready to do it) that a 
new dread took hold of me. If I did not want Fanshawe’s work 
to be bad, I discovered, I also did not want it to be good. This is 
a difﬁcult feeling for me to explain. Old rivalries no doubt had 
something  to  do  with  it,  a  desire  not  to  be  humbled  by  Fan-
shawe’s brilliance—but there was also a feeling of being trapped. 
I had given my word. Once I opened the suitcases, I would be-
come Fanshawe’s spokesman—and I would go on speaking for 
him, whether I liked it or not. Both possibilities frightened me. 
To issue a death sentence was bad enough, but working for a 
dead man hardly seemed better. For several days I moved back 
and forth between these fears, unable to decide which one was 
worse. In the end, of course, I did open the suitcases. But by 
then it probably had less to do with Fanshawe than it did with 

the locked room 

219 

Sophie. I wanted to see her again, and the sooner I got to work, 
the sooner I would have a reason to call her. 

I am not planning to go into any details here. By now, every-
one knows what Fanshawe’s work is like. It has been read and 
discussed, there have been articles and studies, it has become 
public property. If there is anything to be said, it is only that it 
took me no more than an hour or two to understand that my 
feelings were quite beside the point. To care about words, to 
have  a  stake  in  what  is  written,  to  believe  in  the  power  of 
books—this  overwhelms  the  rest,  and  beside  it  one’s  life  be-
comes very small. I do not say this in order to congratulate my-
self or to put my actions in a better light. I was the ﬁrst, but 
beyond that I see nothing to set me apart from anyone else. If 
Fanshawe’s work had been any less than it was, my role would 
have been different—more important, perhaps, more crucial to 
the outcome of the story. But as it was, I was no more than an 
invisible  instrument.  Something  had  happened,  and  short  of 
denying it, short of pretending I had not opened the suitcases, it 
would go on happening, knocking down whatever was in front 
of it, moving with a momentum of its own. 

It took me about a week to digest and organize the material, 
to divide ﬁnished work from drafts, to gather the manuscripts 
into some semblance of chronological order. The earliest piece 
was a poem, dating from 1963 (when Fanshawe was sixteen), 
and the last was from 1976 ( just one month before he disap-
peared). In all there were over a hundred poems, three novels 
(two  short  and  one  long),  and  ﬁve  one-act  plays—as  well  as 
thirteen  notebooks,  which  contained  a  number  of  aborted 
pieces, sketches, jottings, remarks on the books Fanshawe was 
reading, and ideas for future projects. There were no letters, no 
diaries, no glimpses into Fanshawe’s private life. But that was 
something I had expected. A man does not spend his time hid-
ing  from  the  world  without  making  sure  to  cover  his  tracks. 
Still, I had thought that somewhere among all the papers there 
might be some mention of me—if only a letter of instruction or 
a  notebook  entry  naming  me  his  literary  executor.  But  there 
was nothing. Fanshawe had left me entirely on my own. 

220 

the new york trilogy 

I telephoned Sophie and arranged to have dinner with her the 
following  night.  Because  I  suggested  a  fashionable  French 
restaurant (way beyond what I could afford), I think she was 
able to guess my response to Fanshawe’s work. But beyond this 
hint of a celebration, I said as little as I could. I wanted every-
thing to advance at its own pace—no abrupt moves, no prema-
ture gestures. I was already certain about Fanshawe’s work, but 
I was afraid to rush into things with Sophie. Too much hinged 
on how I acted, too much could be destroyed by blundering at 
the start. Sophie and I were linked now, whether she knew it or 
not—if only to the extent that we would be partners in promot-
ing  Fanshawe’s  work.  But  I  wanted  more  than  that,  and  I 
wanted Sophie to want it as well. Struggling against my eager-
ness, I urged caution on myself, told myself to think ahead. 

She  wore  a  black  silk  dress,  tiny  silver  earrings,  and  had 
swept back her hair to show the line of her neck. As she walked 
into the restaurant and saw me sitting at the bar, she gave me a 
warm, complicitous smile, as though telling me she knew how 
beautiful  she  was,  but  at  the  same  time  commenting  on  the 
weirdness of the occasion—savoring it somehow, clearly alert 
to the outlandish implications of the moment. I told her that she 
was  stunning,  and  she  answered  almost  whimsically  that  this 
was her ﬁrst night out since Ben had been born—and that she 
had wanted to “look different.” After that, I stuck to business, 
trying to hang back within myself. When we were led to our 
table and given our seats (white tablecloth, heavy silverware, a 
red tulip in a slender vase between us), I responded to her sec-
ond smile by talking about Fanshawe. 

She  did  not  seem  surprised  by  anything  I  said.  It  was  old 
news for her, a fact that she had already come to terms with, 
and what I was telling her merely conﬁrmed what she had known 
all along. Strangely enough, it did not seem to excite her. There 
was a wariness in her attitude that confused me, and for several 
minutes I was lost. Then, slowly, I began to understand that her 
feelings were not very different from my own. Fanshawe had 
disappeared from her life, and I saw that she might have good 
reason to resent the burden that had been imposed on her. By 
publishing Fanshawe’s work, by devoting herself to a man who 

the locked room 

221 

was no longer there, she would be forced to live in the past, and 
whatever future she might want to build for herself would be 
tainted by the role she had to play: the ofﬁcial widow, the dead 
writer’s muse, the beautiful heroine in a tragic story. No one 
wants to be part of a ﬁction, and even less so if that ﬁction is 
real. Sophie was just twenty-six years old. She was too young to 
live through someone else, too intelligent not to want a life that 
was completely her own. The fact that she had loved Fanshawe 
was not the point. Fanshawe was dead, and it was time for her 
to leave him behind. 

None of this was said in so many words. But the feeling was 
there, and it would have been senseless to ignore it. Given my 
own reservations, it was odd that I should have been the one to 
carry the torch, but I saw that if I didn’t take hold of the thing 
and get it started, the job would never get done. 

“You don’t really have to get involved,” I said. “We’ll have to 
consult,  of  course,  but  that  shouldn’t  take  up  much  of  your 
time. If you’re willing to leave the decisions to me, I don’t think 
it will be very bad at all.” 

“Of course I’ll leave them to you,” she said. “I don’t know 
the ﬁrst thing about any of this. If I tried to do it myself, I’d get 
lost within ﬁve minutes.” 

“The  important  thing  is  to  know  that  we’re  on  the  same 
side,” I said. “In the end, I suppose it boils down to whether or 
not you can trust me.” 

“I trust you,” she said. 
“I haven’t given you any reason to,” I said. “Not yet, in any 

case.” 

“I know that. But I trust you anyway.” 
“Just like that?” 
“Yes. Just like that.” 
She smiled at me again, and for the rest of the dinner we said 
nothing more about Fanshawe’s work. I had been planning to 
discuss it in detail—how best to begin, what publishers might 
be interested, what people to contact, and so on—but this no 
longer seemed important. Sophie was quite content not to think 
about it, and now that I had reassured her that she didn’t have 
to, her playfulness gradually returned. After so many difﬁcult 

222 

the new york trilogy 

months,  she  ﬁnally  had  a  chance  to  forget  some  of  it  for  a 
while, and I could see how determined she was to lose herself in 
the  very  simple  pleasures  of  this  moment:  the  restaurant,  the 
food, the laughter of the people around us, the fact that she was 
here and not anywhere else. She wanted to be indulged in all 
this, and who was I not to go along with her? 

I  was  in  good  form  that  night.  Sophie  inspired  me,  and  it 
didn’t take long for me to get warmed up. I cracked jokes, told 
stories, performed little tricks with the silverware. The woman 
was so beautiful that I had trouble keeping my eyes off her. I 
wanted  to  see  her  laugh,  to  see  how  her  face  would  respond 
to what I said, to watch her eyes, to study her gestures. God 
knows what absurdities I came out with, but I did my best to 
detach myself, to bury my real motives under this onslaught of 
charm. That was the hard part. I knew that Sophie was lonely, 
that she wanted the comfort of a warm body beside her—but a 
quick roll in the hay was not what I was after, and if I moved 
too fast that was probably all it would turn out to be. At this 
early  stage,  Fanshawe  was  still  there  with  us,  the  unspoken 
link, the invisible force that had brought us together. It would 
take some time before he disappeared, and until that happened, 
I found myself willing to wait. 

All  this  created  an  exquisite  tension.  As  the  evening  pro-
gressed,  the  most  casual  remarks  became  tinged  with  erotic 
overtones. Words were no longer simply words, but a curious 
code  of  silences,  a  way  of  speaking  that  continually  moved 
around the thing that was being said. As long as we avoided the 
real  subject,  the  spell  would  not  be  broken.  We  both  slipped 
naturally into this kind of banter, and it became all the more 
powerful because neither one of us abandoned the charade. We 
knew what we were doing, but at the same time we pretended 
not to. Thus my courtship of Sophie began—slowly, decorously, 
building by the smallest of increments. 

After dinner we walked for twenty minutes or so in the late 
November darkness, then ﬁnished up the evening with drinks in 
a bar downtown. I smoked one cigarette after another, but that 
was the only clue to my tumult. Sophie talked for a while about 
her family in Minnesota, her three younger sisters, her arrival in 

the locked room 

223 

New York eight years ago, her music, her teaching, her plan to 
go back to it next fall—but we were so ﬁrmly entrenched in our 
jocular mode by then that each remark became an excuse for 
additional laughter. It would have gone on, but there was the 
babysitter  to  think  about,  and  so  we  ﬁnally  cut  it  short  at 
around midnight. I took her to the door of her apartment and 
made my last great effort of the evening. 

“Thank  you,  doctor,”  Sophie  said.  “The  operation  was  a 

success.” 

“My patients always survive,” I said. “It’s the laughing gas. I 

just turn on the valve, and little by little they get better.” 

“That gas might be habit-forming.” 
“That’s the point. The patients keep coming back for more— 
sometimes two or three operations a week. How do you think I 
paid for my Park Avenue apartment and the summer place in 
France?” 

“So there’s a hidden motive.” 
“Absolutely. I’m driven by greed.” 
“Your practice must be booming.” 
“It was. But I’m more or less retired now. I’m down to one 
patient these days—and I’m not sure if she’ll be coming back.” 
“She’ll be back,” Sophie said, with the coyest, most radiant 

smile I had ever seen. “You can count on it.” 

“That’s good to hear,” I said. “I’ll have my secretary call her 

to schedule the next appointment.” 

“The sooner the better. With these long-term treatments, you 

can’t waste a moment.” 

“Excellent  advice.  I’ll  remember  to  order  a  new  supply  of 

laughing gas.” 

“You do that, doctor. I really think I need it.” 
We smiled at each other again, and then I wrapped her up in 
a big bear hug, gave her a brief kiss on the lips, and got down 
the stairs as fast as I could. 

I went straight home, realized that bed was out of the ques-
tion, and then spent two hours in front of the television, watch-
ing a movie about Marco Polo. I ﬁnally conked out at around 
four, in the middle of a Twilight Zone rerun. 

224 

the new york trilogy 

My ﬁrst move was to contact Stuart Green, an editor at one of 
the larger publishing houses. I didn’t know him very well, but 
we had grown up in the same town, and his younger brother, 
Roger,  had  gone  through  school  with  me  and  Fanshawe.  I 
guessed that Stuart would remember who Fanshawe was, and 
that seemed like a good way to get started. I had run into Stuart 
at  various  gatherings  over  the  years,  perhaps  three  or  four 
times, and he had always been friendly, talking about the good 
old days (as he called them) and always promising to send my 
greetings to Roger the next time he saw him. I had no idea what 
to expect from Stuart, but he sounded happy enough to hear 
from me when I called. We arranged to meet at his ofﬁce one af-
ternoon that week. 

It took him a few moments to place Fanshawe’s name. It was 
familiar  to  him,  he  said,  but  he  didn’t  know  from  where.  I 
prodded  his  memory  a  bit,  mentioned  Roger  and  his  friends, 
and then it suddenly came back to him. “Yes, yes, of course,” 
he said. “Fanshawe. That extraordinary little boy. Roger used 
to insist that he would grow up to be President.” That’s the one, 
I said, and then I told him the story. 

Stuart was a rather prissy fellow, a Harvard type who wore 
bow ties and tweed jackets, and though at bottom he was little 
more  than  a  company  man,  in  the  publishing  world  he  was 
what passed for an intellectual. He had done well for himself so 
far—a senior editor in his early thirties, a solid and responsible 
young worker—and there was no question that he was on the 
rise. I say all this only to prove that he was not someone who 
would be automatically susceptible to the kind of story I was 
telling. There was very little romance in him, very little that was 
not cautious and business-like—but I could feel that he was in-
terested, and as I went on talking, he even seemed to become 
excited. 

He had nothing to lose, of course. If Fanshawe’s work didn’t 
appeal  to  him,  it  would  be  simple  enough  for  him  to  turn 
it down. Rejections were the heart of his job, and he wouldn’t 
have to think twice about it. On the other hand, if Fanshawe 
was  the  writer  I  said  he  was,  then  publishing  him  could  only 
help Stuart’s reputation. He would share in the glory of having 

the locked room 

225 

discovered an unknown American genius, and he would be able 
to live off this coup for years. 

I handed him the manuscript of Fanshawe’s big novel. In the 
end, I said, it would have to be all or nothing—the poems, the 
plays,  the  other  two  novels—but  this  was  Fanshawe’s  major 
work, and it was logical that it should come ﬁrst. I was referring 
to Neverland, of course. Stuart said that he liked the title, but 
when he asked me to describe the book, I said that I’d rather 
not, that I thought it would be better if he found out for him-
self. He raised an eyebrow in response (a trick he had probably 
learned  during  his  year  at  Oxford),  as  if  to  imply  that  I 
shouldn’t play games with him. I wasn’t, as far as I could tell. It 
was just that I didn’t want to coerce him. The book could do 
the work itself, and I saw no reason to deny him the pleasure of 
entering it cold: with no map, no compass, no one to lead him 
by the hand. 

It took three weeks for him to get back to me. The news was 
neither good nor bad, but it seemed hopeful. There was proba-
bly enough support among the editors to get the book through, 
Stuart said, but before they made the ﬁnal decision they wanted 
to have a look at the other material. I had been expecting that— 
a certain prudence, playing it close to the vest—and told Stuart 
that I would come around to drop off the manuscripts the fol-
lowing afternoon. 

“It’s a strange book,” he said, pointing to the copy of Never-
land on his desk. “Not at all your typical novel, you know. Not 
your typical anything. It’s still not clear that we’re going ahead 
with it, but if we do, publishing it will be something of a risk.” 
“I know that,” I said. “But that’s what makes it interesting.” 
“The real pity is that Fanshawe isn’t around. I’d love to be 
able to work with him. There are things in the book that should 
be  changed,  I  think,  certain  passages  that  should  be  cut.  It 
would make the book even stronger.” 

“That’s just editor’s pride,” I said. “It’s hard for you to see a 
manuscript and not want to attack it with a red pencil. The fact 
is,  I  think  the  parts  you  object  to  now  will  eventually  make 
sense  to  you,  and  you’ll  be  glad  you  weren’t  able  to  touch 
them.” 

226 

the new york trilogy 

“Time will tell,” said Stuart, not ready to concede the point. 
“But there’s no question,” he went on, “no question that the 
man could write. I read the book more than two weeks ago, 
and it’s been with me ever since. I can’t get it out of my head. It 
keeps coming back to me, and always at the strangest moments. 
Stepping out of the shower, walking down the street, crawling 
into bed at night—whenever I’m not consciously thinking about 
anything. That doesn’t happen very often, you know. You read 
so many books in this job that they all tend to blur together. But 
Fanshawe’s book stands out. There’s something powerful about 
it, and the oddest thing is that I don’t even know what it is.” 

“That’s probably the real test,” I said. “The same thing hap-
pened to me. The book gets stuck somewhere in the brain, and 
you can’t get rid of it.” 

“And what about the other stuff?” 
“Same thing,” I said. “You can’t stop thinking about it.” 
Stuart shook his head, and for the ﬁrst time I saw that he was 
honestly impressed. It lasted no more than a moment, but in 
that moment his arrogance and posturing suddenly disappeared, 
and I almost found myself wanting to like him. 

“I think we might be on to something,” he said. “If what you 

say is true, then I really think we might be on to something.” 

We were, and as things turned out, perhaps even more than 
Stuart had imagined. Neverland was accepted later that month, 
with an option on the other books as well. My quarter of the 
advance  was  enough  to  buy  me  some  time,  and  I  used  it  to 
work on an edition of the poems. I also went to a number of 
directors  to  see  if  there  was  any  interest  in  doing  the  plays. 
Eventually, this came off, too, and a production of three one-
acts was planned for a small downtown theater—to open about 
six weeks after Neverland was published. In the meantime, I 
persuaded the editor of one of the bigger magazines I occasion-
ally wrote for to let me do an article on Fanshawe. It turned out 
to be a long, rather exotic piece, and at the time I felt it was one 
of the best things I had ever written. The article was scheduled 
to appear two months before the publication of Neverland— 
and suddenly it seemed as though everything was happening at 
once. 

the locked room 

227 

I admit that I got caught up in it all. One thing kept leading 
to another, and before I knew it a small industry had been set in 
motion. It was a kind of delirium, I think. I felt like an engineer, 
pushing  buttons  and  pulling  levers,  scrambling  from  valve 
chambers to circuit boxes, adjusting a part here, devising an im-
provement  there,  listening  to  the  contraption  hum  and  chug 
and purr, oblivious to everything but the din of my brainchild. I 
was the mad scientist who had invented the great hocus-pocus 
machine,  and  the  more  smoke  that  poured  from  it,  the  more 
noise it produced, the happier I was. 

Perhaps  that  was  inevitable;  perhaps  I  needed  to  be  a  little 
mad in order to get started. Given the strain of reconciling my-
self to the project, it was probably necessary for me to equate 
Fanshawe’s success with my own. I had stumbled onto a cause, 
a  thing  that  justiﬁed  me  and  made  me  feel  important,  and 
the more fully I disappeared into my ambitions for Fanshawe, 
the more sharply I came into focus for myself. This is not an ex-
cuse;  it  is  merely  a  description  of  what  happened.  Hindsight 
tells me that I was looking for trouble, but at the time I knew 
nothing about it. More important, even if I had known, I doubt 
that it would have made a difference. 

Underneath it all was the desire to stay in touch with Sophie. 
As time went on, it became perfectly natural for me to call her 
three or four times a week, to see her for lunch, to stop by for 
an afternoon stroll through the neighborhood with Ben. I intro-
duced her to Stuart Green, invited her along to meet the theater 
director, found her a lawyer to handle contracts and other legal 
matters.  Sophie  took  all  this  in  her  stride,  treating  these  en-
counters more as social occasions than as business talks, mak-
ing it clear to the people we saw that I was the one in charge. I 
sensed  that  she  was  determined  not  to  feel  indebted  to  Fan-
shawe, that whatever happened or did not happen, she would 
continue  to  keep  her  distance  from  it.  The  money  made  her 
happy,  of  course,  but  she  never  really  connected  it  to  Fan-
shawe’s work. It was an unlikely gift, a winning lottery ticket 
that  had  dropped  from  the  sky,  and  that  was  all.  Sophie  saw 
through the whirlwind from the very start. She understood the 
fundamental absurdity of the situation, and because there was 

228 

the new york trilogy 

no greed in her, no impulse to press her own advantage, she did 
not lose her head. 

I  worked  hard  at  courting  her.  No  doubt  my  motives  were 
transparent,  but  perhaps  that  was  to  the  good.  Sophie  knew 
that  I  had  fallen  in  love  with  her,  and  the  fact  that  I  did  not 
pounce on her, that I did not force her to declare her feelings for 
me, probably did more to convince her of my seriousness than 
anything else. Still, I could not wait forever. Discretion has its 
role, but too much of it can be fatal. A moment came when I 
could feel that we were no longer jousting with each other, that 
things between us had already been settled. In thinking about 
this moment now, I am tempted to use the traditional language 
of love. I want to talk in metaphors of heat, of burning, of bar-
riers  melting  down  in  the  face  of  irresistible  passions.  I  am 
aware of how overblown these terms might sound, but in the 
end I believe they are accurate. Everything had changed for me, 
and words that I had never understood before suddenly began 
to make sense. This came as a revelation, and when I ﬁnally had 
time to absorb it, I wondered how I had managed to live so long 
without learning this simple thing. I am not talking about desire 
so much as knowledge, the discovery that two people, through 
desire,  can  create  a  thing  more  powerful  than  either  of  them 
can create alone. This knowledge changed me, I think, and ac-
tually made me feel more human. By belonging to Sophie, I be-
gan to feel as though I belonged to everyone else as well. My 
true place in the world, it turned out, was somewhere beyond 
myself, and if that place was inside me, it was also unlocatable. 
This was the tiny hole between self and not-self, and for the ﬁrst 
time  in  my  life  I  saw  this  nowhere  as  the  exact  center  of  the 
world. 

It happened to be my thirtieth birthday. I had known Sophie 
for about three months by then, and she insisted on making an 
evening of it. I was reluctant at ﬁrst, never having paid much at-
tention to birthdays, but Sophie’s sense of occasion ﬁnally won 
me  over.  She  bought  me  an  expensive,  illustrated  edition  of 
Moby Dick, took me to dinner in a good restaurant, and then 
ushered me along to a performance of  Boris Godunov at the 
Met. For once, I let myself go with it, not trying to second-guess 

the locked room 

229 

my happiness, not trying to stay ahead of myself or outmaneu-
ver my feelings. Perhaps I was beginning to sense a new bold-
ness in Sophie; perhaps she was making it known to me that she 
had decided things for herself, that it was too late now for ei-
ther one of us to back off. Whatever it was, that was the night 
when everything changed, when there was no longer any ques-
tion of what we were going to do. We returned to her apart-
ment  at  eleven-thirty,  Sophie  paid  the  drowsy  babysitter,  and 
then  we  tiptoed  into  Ben’s  room  and  stood  there  for  a  while 
watching him as he slept in his crib. I remember distinctly that 
neither one of us said anything, that the only sound I could hear 
was the faint gurgling of Ben’s breath. We leaned over the bars 
and studied the shape of his little body—lying on his stomach, 
legs tucked under him, ass in the air, two or three ﬁngers stuck 
in his mouth. It seemed to go on for a long time, but I doubt it 
was more than a minute or two. Then, without any warning, 
we both straightened up, turned towards each other, and began 
to kiss. After that, it is difﬁcult for me to speak of what hap-
pened. Such things have little to do with words, so little, in fact, 
that  it  seems  almost  pointless  to  try  to  express  them.  If  any-
thing, I would say that we were falling into each other, that we 
were  falling  so  fast  and  so  far  that  nothing  could  catch  us. 
Again,  I  lapse  into  metaphor.  But  that  is  probably  beside  the 
point. For whether or not I can talk about it does not change 
the truth of what happened. The fact is, there never was such a 
kiss,  and  in  all  my  life  I  doubt  there  can  ever  be  such  a  kiss 
again. 

4 

I spent that night in Sophie’s bed, and from then on it became 
impossible to leave it. I would go back to my own apartment 
during the day to work, but every evening I would return to So-
phie. I became a part of the household—shopping for dinner, 
changing Ben’s diapers, taking out the garbage—living more in-
timately  with  another  person  than  I  had  ever  lived  before. 
Months went by, and to my constant bewilderment, I discov-
ered that I had a talent for this kind of life. I had been born to 
be with Sophie, and little by little I could feel myself becoming 
stronger, could feel her making me better than I had been. It 
was strange how Fanshawe had brought us together. If not for 
his disappearance, none of this would have happened. I owed 
him  a  debt,  but  other  than  doing  what  I  could  for  his  work, 
I had no chance to pay it back. 

My article was published, and it seemed to have the desired 
effect. Stuart Green called to say that it was a “great boost”— 
which I gathered to mean that he felt more secure now in hav-
ing  accepted  the  book.  With  all  the  interest  the  article  had 
generated,  Fanshawe  no  longer  seemed  like  such  a  long  shot. 
Then  Neverland  came  out,  and  the  reviews  were  uniformly 
good,  some  of  them  extraordinary.  It  was  all  that  one  could 
have hoped for. This was the fairy tale that every writer dreams 
about, and I admit that even I was a little shocked. Such things 
are  not  supposed  to  happen  in  the  real  world.  Only  a  few 
weeks  after  publication,  sales  were  greater  than  had  been 
expected  for  the  whole  edition.  A  second  printing  eventually 
went to press, there were ads placed in newspapers and maga-
zines, and then the book was sold to a paperback company for 

the locked room 

231 

republication the following year. I don’t mean to imply that the 
book was a bestseller by commercial standards or that Sophie 
was on her way to becoming a millionaire, but given the seri-
ousness and difﬁculty of Fanshawe’s work, and given the pub-
lic’s  tendency  to  stay  away  from  such  work,  it  was  a  success 
beyond anything we had imagined possible. 

In some sense, this is where the story should end. The young 
genius is dead, but his work will live on, his name will be re-
membered for years to come. His childhood friend has rescued 
the beautiful young widow, and the two of them will live hap-
pily ever after. That would seem to wrap it up, with nothing left 
but a ﬁnal curtain call. But it turns out that this is only the be-
ginning. What I have written so far is no more than a prelude, 
a  quick  synopsis  of  everything  that  comes  before  the  story  I 
have to tell. If there were no more to it than this, there would 
be nothing at all—for nothing would have compelled me to be-
gin. Only darkness has the power to make a man open his heart 
to  the  world,  and  darkness  is  what  surrounds  me  whenever  I 
think of what happened. If courage is needed to write about it, 
I also know that writing about it is the one chance I have to es-
cape. But I doubt this will happen, not even if I manage to tell 
the truth. Stories without endings can do nothing but go on for-
ever, and to be caught in one means that you must die before 
your part in it is played out. My only hope is that there is an 
end to  what  I  am  about  to  say,  that  somewhere  I  will  ﬁnd  a 
break in the darkness. This hope is what I deﬁne as courage, but 
whether there is reason to hope is another question entirely. 

It was about three weeks after the plays had opened. I spent 
the  night  at  Sophie’s  apartment  as  usual,  and  in  the  morning 
I went uptown to my place to do some work. I remember that I 
was supposed to be ﬁnishing a piece on four or ﬁve books of 
poetry—one  of  those  frustrating,  hodge-podge  reviews—and 
I was having trouble concentrating. My mind kept wandering 
away from the books on my desk, and every ﬁve minutes or so I 
would  pop  up  from  my  chair  and  pace  about  the  room.  A 
strange story had been reported to me by Stuart Green the day 
before, and it was hard for me to stop thinking about it. Ac-
cording to Stuart, people were beginning to say that there was 

232 

the new york trilogy 

no  such  person  as  Fanshawe.  The  rumor  was  that  I  had  in-
vented him to perpetrate a hoax and had actually written the 
books myself. My ﬁrst response was to laugh, and I made some 
crack about how Shakespeare hadn’t written any plays either. 
But  now  that  I  had  given  some  thought  to  it,  I  didn’t  know 
whether to feel insulted or ﬂattered by this talk. Did people not 
trust me to tell the truth? Why would I go to the trouble of cre-
ating an entire body of work and then not want to take credit 
for it? And yet—did people really think I was capable of writing 
a book as good as Neverland? I realized that once all of Fan-
shawe’s manuscripts had been published, it would be perfectly 
possible for me to write another book or two under his name— 
to do the work myself and yet pass it off as his. I was not plan-
ning to do this, of course, but the mere thought of it opened up 
certain  bizarre  and  intriguing  notions  to  me:  what  it  means 
when  a  writer  puts  his  name  on  a  book,  why  some  writers 
choose to hide behind a pseudonym, whether or not a writer 
has a real life anyway. It struck me that writing under another 
name  might  be  something  I  would  enjoy—to  invent  a  secret 
identity for myself—and I wondered why I found this idea so 
attractive. One thought kept leading me to another, and by the 
time the subject was exhausted, I discovered that I had squan-
dered most of the morning. 

Eleven-thirty  rolled  around—the  hour  of  the  mail—and  I 
made my ritual excursion down the elevator to see if there was 
anything in my box. This was always a crucial moment of the 
day  for  me,  and  I  found  it  impossible  to  approach  it  calmly. 
There  was  always  the  hope  that  good  news  would  be  sitting 
there—an  unexpected  check,  an  offer  of  work,  a  letter  that 
would somehow change my life—and by now the habit of an-
ticipation was so much a part of me that I could scarcely look at 
my mailbox without getting a rush. This was my hiding place, 
the one spot in the world that was purely my own. And yet it 
linked me to the rest of the world, and in its magic darkness 
there was the power to make things happen. 

There was only one letter for me that day. It came in a plain 
white envelope with a New York postmark and had no return 
address. The handwriting was unfamiliar to me (my name and 

the locked room 

233 

address were printed out in block letters), and I couldn’t even 
begin to guess who it was from. I opened the envelope in the 
elevator—and  it  was  then,  standing  there  on  my  way  to  the 
ninth ﬂoor, that the world fell on top of me. 

“Don’t be angry with me for writing to you,” the letter be-
gan. “At the risk of causing you heart failure, I wanted to send 
you  one  last  word—to  thank  you  for  what  you  have  done.  I 
knew that you were the person to ask, but things have turned 
out even better than I thought they would. You have gone be-
yond the possible, and I am in your debt. Sophie and the child 
will be taken care of, and because of that I can live with a clear 
conscience. 

“I’m not going to explain myself here. In spite of this letter, I 
want you to go on thinking of me as dead. Nothing is more im-
portant  than  that,  and  you  must  not  tell  anyone  that  you’ve 
heard from me. I am not going to be found, and to speak of it 
would only lead to more trouble than it’s worth. Above all, say 
nothing to Sophie. Make her divorce me, and then marry her as 
soon as you can. I trust you to do that—and I give you my bless-
ings.  The  child  needs  a  father,  and  you’re  the  only  one  I  can 
count on. 

“I  want  you  to  understand  that  I  haven’t  lost  my  mind.  I 
made certain decisions that were necessary, and though people 
have  suffered,  leaving  was  the  best  and  kindest  thing  I  have 
ever done. 

“Seven years from the day of my disappearance will be the 
day of my death. I have passed judgment on myself, and no ap-
peals will be heard. 

“I beg you not to look for me. I have no desire to be found, 
and it seems to me that I have the right to live the rest of my life 
as I see ﬁt. Threats are repugnant to me—but I have no choice 
but to give you this warning: if by some miracle you manage to 
track me down, I will kill you. 

“I’m pleased that so much interest has been taken in my writ-
ing.  I  never  had  the  slightest  inkling  that  anything  like  this 
could happen. But it all seems so far away from me now. Writ-
ing  books  belongs  to  another  life,  and  to  think  about  it  now 
leaves me cold. I will never try to claim any of the money—and 

234 

the new york trilogy 

I gladly give it to you and Sophie. Writing was an illness that 
plagued me for a long time, but now I have recovered from it. 
“Rest assured that I won’t be in touch again. You are free of 
me now, and I wish you a long and happy life. How much bet-
ter that everything should come to this. You are my friend, and 
my one hope is that you will always be who you are. With me 
it’s another story. Wish me luck.” 

There was no signature at the bottom of the letter, and for the 
next hour or two I tried to persuade myself that it was a prank. 
If  Fanshawe  had  written  it,  why  would  he  have  neglected  to 
sign his name? I clung to this as evidence of a trick, desperately 
looking for an excuse to deny what had happened. But this op-
timism did not last very long, and little by little I forced myself 
to face the facts. There could be any number of reasons for the 
name  to  be  left  out,  and  the  more  I  thought  about  it,  the 
more clearly I saw that this was precisely why the letter should 
be considered genuine. A prankster would make a special point 
of  including  the  name,  but  the  real  person  would  not  think 
twice about it: only someone not out to deceive would have the 
self-assurance  to  make  such  an  apparent  mistake.  And  then 
there  were  the  ﬁnal  sentences  of  the  letter:  “. . . remain  who 
you are. With me it’s another story.” Did this mean that Fan-
shawe had become someone else? Unquestionably, he was living 
under another name—but how was he living—and where? The 
New York postmark was something of a clue, perhaps, but it 
just as easily could have been a blind, a bit of false information 
to throw me off his track. Fanshawe had been extremely care-
ful. I read the letter over and over, trying to pull it apart, look-
ing  for  an  opening,  a  way  to  read  between  the  lines—but 
nothing came of it. The letter was opague, a block of darkness 
that thwarted every attempt to get inside it. In the end I gave up, 
put the letter in a drawer of my desk, and admitted that I was 
lost, that nothing would ever be the same for me again. 

What  bothered  me  most,  I  think,  was  my  own  stupidity. 
Looking back on it now, I saw that all the facts had been given 
to me at the start—as early as my ﬁrst meeting with Sophie. For 
years Fanshawe publishes nothing, then he tells his wife what to 
do if anything should happen to him (contact me, get his work 

the locked room 

235 

published), and then he vanishes. It was all so obvious. The man 
wanted  to  leave,  and  he  left.  He  simply  got  up  one  day  and 
walked out on his pregnant wife, and because she trusted him, 
because  it  was  inconceivable  to  her  that  he  would  do  such  a 
thing, she had no choice but to think he was dead. Sophie had 
deluded herself, but given the situation, it was hard to see how 
she could have done otherwise. I had no such excuse. Not once 
from the very beginning had I thought things through for my-
self. I had jumped right in with her, had rejoiced in accepting 
her misreading of the facts, and then had stopped thinking alto-
gether. People have been shot for smaller crimes than that. 

The days went by. All my instincts told me to conﬁde in So-
phie, to share the letter with her, and yet I couldn’t bring myself 
to do it. I was too afraid, too uncertain as to how she would re-
act.  In  my  stronger  moods,  I  argued  to  myself  that  keeping 
silent  was  the  only  way  to  protect  her.  What  possible  good 
would it do for her to know that Fanshawe had walked out on 
her?  She  would  blame  herself  for  what  had  happened,  and  I 
didn’t want her to be hurt. Underneath this noble silence, how-
ever, there was a second silence of panic and fear. Fanshawe was 
alive—and if I let Sophie know it, what would this knowledge 
do to us? The thought that Sophie might want him back was 
too much for me, and I did not have the courage to risk ﬁnding 
out.  This  was  perhaps  my  greatest  failure  of  all.  If  I  had  be-
lieved enough in Sophie’s love for me, I would have been willing 
to risk anything. But at the time there seemed to be no other 
choice, and so I did what Fanshawe had asked me to do—not 
for him, but for myself. I locked up the secret inside me and 
learned to hold my tongue. 

A few more days went by, and then I proposed marriage to 
Sophie. We had talked about it before, but this time I took it out 
of the realm of talk, making it clear to her that I meant business. 
I realized that I was acting out of character (humorless, inﬂexi-
ble), but I couldn’t help myself. The uncertainty of the situation 
was impossible to live with, and I felt that I had to resolve things 
right  then  and  there.  Sophie  noticed  this  change  in  me,  of 
course,  but  since  she  didn’t  know  the  reason  for  it,  she  inter-
preted  it  as  an  excess  of  passion—the  behavior  of  a  nervous, 

236 

the new york trilogy 

overly  ardent  male,  panting  after  the  thing  he  wanted  most 
(which was also true). Yes, she said, she would marry me. Did I 
ever really think she would turn me down? 

“And I want to adopt Ben, too,” I said. “I want him to have 
my name. It’s important that he grow up thinking of me as his 
father.” 

Sophie answered that she wouldn’t have it any other way. It 

was the only thing that made sense—for all three of us. 

“And I want it to happen soon,” I went on, “as soon as pos-
sible. In New York, you couldn’t get a divorce for a year—and 
that’s too long, I couldn’t stand waiting that long. But there are 
other  places.  Alabama,  Nevada,  Mexico,  God  knows  where. 
We could go off on a vacation, and by the time we got back, 
you’d be free to marry me.” 

Sophie  said  that  she  liked  the  way  that  sounded—“free  to 
marry me.” If it meant going somewhere for a while, she would 
go, she said, she would go anywhere I wanted. 

“After all,” I said, “he’s been gone for more than a year now, 
almost a year and a half. It takes seven years before a dead per-
son can be declared ofﬁcially dead. Things happen, life moves 
on. Just think: we’ve known each other for almost a year.” 

“To be precise,” Sophie answered, “you walked through that 
door  for  the  ﬁrst  time  on  November  twenty-ﬁfth,  nineteen-
seventy-six. In eight more days it will be exactly a year.” 

“You remember.” 
“Of course I remember. It was the most important day of my 

life.” 

We  took  a  plane  to  Birmingham,  Alabama,  on  November 
twenty-seventh and were back in New York by the ﬁrst week of 
December. On the eleventh we were married in City Hall, and 
afterward we went to a drunken dinner with about twenty of 
our friends. We spent that night at the Plaza, ordered a room 
service  breakfast  in  the  morning,  and  later  that  day  ﬂew  to 
Minnesota with Ben. On the eighteenth, Sophie’s parents gave 
us  a  wedding  party  at  their  house,  and  on  the  night  of  the 
twenty-fourth we celebrated Norwegian Christmas. Two days 
later,  Sophie  and  I  left  the  snow  and  went  to  Bermuda  for  a 
week and a half, then returned to Minnesota to fetch Ben. Our 

the locked room 

237 

plan was to start looking for a new apartment as soon as we got 
back  to  New  York.  Somewhere  over  western  Pennsylvania, 
about an hour into the ﬂight, Ben peed through his diapers onto 
my lap. When I showed him the large dark spot on my pants, he 
laughed, clapped his hands together, and then, looking straight 
into my eyes, called me Da for the ﬁrst time. 

5 

I dug into the present. Several months passed, and little by little 
it began to seem possible that I would survive. This was life in a 
foxhole, but Sophie and Ben were down there with me, and that 
was all I really wanted. As long as I remembered not to look up, 
the danger could not touch us. 

We moved to an apartment on Riverside Drive in February. 
Settling  in  carried  us  through  to  mid-spring,  and  I  had  little 
chance to dwell on Fanshawe. If the letter did not vanish from 
my thoughts altogether, it no longer posed the same threat. I 
was secure with Sophie now, and I felt that nothing could break 
us apart—not even Fanshawe, not even Fanshawe in the ﬂesh. 
Or so it appeared to me then, whenever I happened to think of 
it. I understand now how badly I was deceiving myself, but I 
did not ﬁnd that out until much later. By deﬁnition, a thought is 
something you are aware of. The fact that I did not once stop 
thinking about Fanshawe, that he was inside me day and night 
for all those months, was unknown to me at the time. And if 
you are not aware of having a thought, is it legitimate to say 
that  you  are  thinking?  I  was  haunted,  perhaps,  I  was  even 
possessed—but  there  were  no  signs  of  it,  no  clues  to  tell  me 
what was happening. 

Daily life was full for me now. I hardly noticed that I was do-
ing less work than I had in years. I had no job to go off to in the 
morning, and since Sophie and Ben were in the apartment with 
me,  it  was  not  very  difﬁcult  to  ﬁnd  excuses  for  avoiding  my 
desk.  My  work  schedule  grew  slack.  Instead  of  beginning  at 
nine  sharp  every  day,  I  sometimes  didn’t  make  it  to  my  little 
room  until  eleven  or  eleven-thirty.  On  top  of  that,  Sophie’s 

the locked room 

239 

presence in the house was a constant temptation. Ben still took 
one or two naps a day, and in those quiet hours while he slept, it 
was hard for me not to think about her body. More often than 
not, we wound up making love. Sophie was just as hungry for it 
as I was, and as the weeks passed, the house was slowly eroti-
cized,  transformed  into  a  domain  of  sexual  possibilities.  The 
nether world rose up to the surface. Each room acquired its own 
memory, each spot evoked a different moment, so that even in 
the calm of practical life, a particular patch of carpet, say, or the 
threshold of a particular door, was no longer strictly a thing but 
a sensation, an echo of our erotic life. We had entered the para-
dox of desire. Our need for each other was inexhaustible, and 
the more it was fulﬁlled, the more it seemed to grow. 

Every now and then, Sophie talked of looking for a job, but 
neither  one  of  us  felt  any  urgency  about  it.  Our  money  was 
holding up well, and we even managed to put away quite a bit. 
Fanshawe’s next book, Miracles, was in the works, and the ad-
vance  from  the  contract  had  been  heftier  than  the  one  from 
Neverland.  According  to  the  schedule  that  Stuart  and  I  had 
charted out, the poems would come six months after Miracles, 
then  Fanshawe’s  earliest  novel,  Blackouts,  and  last  of  all  the 
plays. Royalties from Neverland started coming in that March, 
and with checks suddenly arriving for one thing and another, 
all money problems evaporated. Like everything else that seemed 
to be happening, this was a new experience for me. For the past 
eight or nine years, my life had been a constant scrambling act, 
a frantic lunge from one paltry article to the next, and I had 
considered myself lucky whenever I could see ahead for more 
than a month or two. Care was embedded inside me; it was part 
of my blood, my corpuscles, and I hardly knew what it was to 
breathe without wondering if I could afford to pay the gas bill. 
Now, for the ﬁrst time since I had gone out on my own, I real-
ized that I didn’t have to think about these things anymore. One 
morning, as I sat at my desk struggling over the ﬁnal sentence of 
an article, groping for a phrase that was not there, it gradually 
dawned on me that I had been given a second chance. I could 
give this up and start again. I no longer had to write articles. I 
could  move  on  to  other  things,  begin  to  do  the  work  I  had 

240 

the new york trilogy 

always wanted to do. This was my chance to save myself, and I 
decided I’d be a fool not to take it. 

More weeks passed. I went into my room every morning, but 
nothing happened. Theoretically, I felt inspired, and whenever 
I was not working, my head was ﬁlled with ideas. But each time 
I sat down to put something on paper, my thoughts seemed to 
vanish. Words died the moment I lifted my pen. I started a num-
ber of projects, but nothing really took hold, and one by one I 
dropped them. I looked for excuses to explain why I couldn’t 
get going. That was no problem, and before long I had come up 
with a whole litany: the adjustment to married life, the respon-
sibilities of fatherhood, my new workroom (which seemed too 
cramped),  the  old  habit  of  writing  for  a  deadline,  Sophie’s 
body, the sudden windfall—everything. For several days, I even 
toyed with the idea of writing a detective novel, but then I got 
stuck with the plot and couldn’t ﬁt all the pieces together. I let 
my mind drift without purpose, hoping to persuade myself that 
idleness was proof of gathering strength, a sign that something 
was about to happen. For more than a month, the only thing I 
did  was  copy  out  passages  from  books.  One  of  them,  from 
Spinoza, I tacked onto my wall: “And when he dreams he does 
not  want  to  write,  he  does  not  have  the  power  to  dream  he 
wants to write; and when he dreams he wants to write, he does 
not have the power to dream he does not want to write.” 

It’s  possible  that  I  would  have  worked  my  way  out  of  this 
slump. Whether it was a permanent condition or a passing phase 
is  still  unclear  to  me.  My  gut  feeling  is  that  for  a  time  I  was 
truly  lost,  ﬂoundering  desperately  inside  myself,  but  I  do  not 
think this means my case was hopeless. Things were happening 
to me. I was living through great changes, and it was still too 
early to tell where they were going to lead. Then, unexpectedly, 
a solution presented itself. If that is too favorable a word, I will 
call it a compromise. Whatever it was, I put up very little resis-
tance to it. It came at a vulnerable time for me, and my judg-
ment  was  not  all  it  should  have  been.  This  was  my  second 
crucial mistake, and it followed directly from the ﬁrst. 

I was having lunch with Stuart one day near his ofﬁce on the 
Upper East Side. Midway through the meal, he brought up the 

the locked room 

241 

Fanshawe rumors again, and for the ﬁrst time it occurred to me 
that he was actually beginning to have doubts. The subject was so 
fascinating to him that he couldn’t stay away from it. His manner 
was  arch,  mockingly  conspiratorial,  but  underneath  the  pose  I 
began to suspect that he was trying to trap me into a confession. 
I played along with him for a while, and then, growing tired of 
the  game,  said  that  the  one  foolproof  method  for  settling  the 
question was to commission a biography. I made this remark in 
all  innocence  (as  a  logical  point,  not  as  a  suggestion),  but  it 
seemed to strike Stuart as a splendid idea. He began to gush: of 
course, of course, the Fanshawe myth explained, perfectly obvi-
ous, of course, the true story at last. In a matter of minutes he had 
the whole thing ﬁgured out. I would write the book. It would ap-
pear after all of Fanshawe’s work had been published, and I could 
have as much time as I wanted—two years, three years, what-
ever. It would have to be an extraordinary book, Stuart added, a 
book equal to Fanshawe himself, but he had great conﬁdence in 
me, and he knew I could do the job. The proposal caught me off 
guard,  and  I  treated  it  as  a  joke.  But  Stuart  was  serious;  he 
wouldn’t let me turn him down. Give it some thought, he said, 
and then tell me how you feel. I remained skeptical, but to be po-
lite I told him I would think about it. We agreed that I would give 
him a ﬁnal answer by the end of the month. 

I discussed it with Sophie that night, but since I couldn’t talk 

to her honestly, the conversation was not much help to me. 

“It’s up to you,” she said. “If you want to do it, I think you 

should go ahead.” 

“It doesn’t bother you?” 
“No.  At  least  I  don’t  think  so.  It’s  already  occurred  to  me 
that sooner or later there would be a book about him. If it has 
to  happen,  then  better  it  should  be  by  you  than  by  someone 
else.” 

“I’d  have  to  write  about  you  and  Fanshawe.  It  might  be 

strange.” 

“A few pages will be enough. As long as you’re the one who’s 

writing them, I’m not really worried.” 

“Maybe,” I said, not knowing how to continue. “The tough-
est question, I suppose, is whether I want to get so involved in 

242 

the new york trilogy 

thinking  about  Fanshawe.  Maybe  it’s  time  to  let  him  fade 
away.” 

“It’s your decision. But the fact is, you could do this book 
better than anyone else. And it doesn’t have to be a straight bi-
ography, you know. You could do something more interesting.” 

“Like what?” 
“I don’t know, something more personal, more gripping. The 
story  of  your  friendship.  It  could  be  as  much  about  you  as 
about him.” 

“Maybe. At least it’s an idea. The thing that puzzles me is 

how you can be so calm about it.” 

“Because I’m married to you and I love you, that’s how. If 
you decide it’s something you want to do, then I’m for it. I’m 
not  blind,  after  all.  I  know  you’ve  been  having  trouble  with 
your work, and I sometimes feel that I’m to blame for it. Maybe 
this is the kind of project you need to get started again.” 

I had secretly been counting on Sophie to make the decision 
for  me,  assuming  she  would  object,  assuming  we  would  talk 
about it once and that would be the end of it. But just the oppo-
site had happened. I had backed myself into a corner, and my 
courage suddenly failed me. I let a couple of days go by, and 
then I called Stuart and told him I would do the book. This got 
me another free lunch, and after that I was on my own. 

There was never any question of telling the truth. Fanshawe had 
to be dead, or else the book would make no sense. Not only 
would I have to leave the letter out, but I would have to pretend 
that it had never been written. I make no bones about what I 
was planning to do. It was clear to me from the beginning, and 
I plunged into it with deceit in my heart. The book was a work 
of ﬁction. Even though it was based on facts, it could tell noth-
ing but lies. I signed the contract, and afterwards I felt like a 
man who had signed away his soul. 

I wandered in my mind for several weeks, looking for a way 
to  begin.  Every  life  is  inexplicable,  I  kept  telling  myself.  No 
matter how many facts are told, no matter how many details 
are given, the essential thing resists telling. To say that so and 
so was born here and went there, that he did this and did that, 

the locked room 

243 

that  he  married  this  woman  and  had  these  children,  that  he 
lived, that he died, that he left behind these books or this battle 
or that bridge—none of that tells us very much. We all want to 
be told stories, and we listen to them in the same way we did 
when  we  were  young.  We  imagine  the  real  story  inside  the 
words, and to do this we substitute ourselves for the person in 
the story, pretending that we can understand him because we 
understand  ourselves.  This  is  a  deception.  We  exist  for  our-
selves, perhaps, and at times we even have a glimmer of who we 
are, but in the end we can never be sure, and as our lives go on, 
we become more and more opaque to ourselves, more and more 
aware of our own incoherence. No one can cross the boundary 
into another—for the simple reason that no one can gain access 
to himself. 

I thought back to something that had happened to me eight 
years earlier, in June of 1970. Short of money, and with no im-
mediate prospects for the summer, I took a temporary job as a 
census-taker in Harlem. There were about twenty of us in the 
group, a commando corps of ﬁeld workers hired to track down 
people who had not responded to the questionnaires sent out in 
the mail. We trained for several days in a dusty second-ﬂoor loft 
across from the Apollo Theatre, and then, having mastered the 
intricacies of the forms and the basic rules of census-taker eti-
quette,  dispersed  into  the  neighborhood  with  our  red,  white, 
and blue shoulder bags to knock on doors, ask questions, and 
return with the facts. The ﬁrst place I went to turned out to be 
the  headquarters  of  a  numbers  operation.  The  door  opened  a 
sliver, a head poked out (behind it I could see a dozen men in a 
bare room writing on long picnic tables), and I was politely told 
that they weren’t interested. That seemed to set the tone. In one 
apartment I talked with a half-blind woman whose parents had 
been  slaves.  Twenty  minutes  into  the  interview,  it  ﬁnally 
dawned  on  her  that  I  wasn’t  black,  and  she  started  cackling 
with laughter. She had suspected it all long, she said, since my 
voice was funny, but she had trouble believing it. I was the ﬁrst 
white person who had ever been inside her house. In another 
apartment, I came upon a household of eleven people, none of 
them older than twenty-two. But for the most part no one was 

244 

the new york trilogy 

there. And when they were, they wouldn’t talk to me or let me 
in. Summer came, and the streets grew hot and humid, intoler-
able in the way that only New York can be. I would begin my 
rounds early, blundering stupidly from house to house, feeling 
more and more like a man from the moon. I ﬁnally spoke to the 
supervisor (a fast-talking black man who wore silk ascots and a 
sapphire ring) and explained my problem to him. It was then 
that I learned what was really expected of me. This man was 
paid  a  certain  amount  for  each  form  a  member  of  his  crew 
turned  in.  The  better  our  results,  the  more  money  would  go 
into his pocket. “I’m not telling you what to do,” he said, “but 
it seems to me that if you’ve given it an honest shot, then you 
shouldn’t feel too bad.” 

“Just give up?” I asked. 
“On  the  other  hand,”  he  continued  philosophically,  “the 
government wants completed forms. The more forms they get, 
the better they’re going to feel. Now I know you’re an intelli-
gent boy, and I know you don’t get ﬁve when you put two and 
two together. Just because a door doesn’t open when you knock 
on it doesn’t mean that nobody’s there. You’ve got to use your 
imagination,  my  friend.  After  all,  we  don’t  want  the  govern-
ment to be unhappy, do we?” 

The job became considerably easier after that, but it was no 
longer the same job. My ﬁeld work had turned into desk work, 
and instead of an investigator I was now an inventor. Every day 
or two, I stopped by the ofﬁce to pick up a new batch of forms 
and turn in the ones I had ﬁnished, but other than that I didn’t 
have to leave my apartment. I don’t know how many people I 
invented—but there must have been hundreds of them, perhaps 
thousands. I would sit in my room with the fan blowing in my 
face and a cold towel wrapped around my neck, ﬁlling out ques-
tionnaires  as  fast  as  my  hand  could  write.  I  went  in  for  big 
households—six, eight, ten children—and took special pride in 
concocting odd and complicated networks of relationships, draw-
ing on all the possible combinations: parents, children, cousins, 
uncles, aunts, grandparents, common law spouses, stepchildren, 
half-brothers, half-sisters, and friends. Most of all, there was the 
pleasure of making up names. At times I had to curb my impulse 

the locked room 

245 

towards the outlandish—the ﬁercely comical, the pun, the dirty 
word—but for the most part I was content to stay within the 
bounds of realism. When my imagination ﬂagged, there were 
certain mechanical devices to fall back on: the colors (Brown, 
White, Black, Green, Gray, Blue), the Presidents (Washington, 
Adams, Jefferson, Fillmore, Pierce), ﬁctional characters (Finn, 
Starbuck,  Dimmesdale,  Budd).  I  liked  names  associated  with 
the  sky  (Orville  Wright,  Amelia  Earhart),  with  silent  humor 
(Keaton,  Langdon,  Lloyd),  with  long  homeruns  (Killebrew, 
Mantle,  Mays),  and  with  music  (Schubert,  Ives,  Armstrong). 
Occasionally,  I  would  dredge  up  the  names  of  distant  rela-
tives or old school friends, and once I even used an anagram of 
my own. 

It was a childish thing to be doing, but I had no qualms. Nor 
was it hard to justify. The supervisor would not object; the peo-
ple who actually lived at the addresses on the forms would not 
object (they did not want to be bothered, especially not by a 
white boy snooping into their personal business); and the gov-
ernment would not object, since what it did not know could not 
hurt it, and certainly no more than it was already hurting itself. 
I even went so far as to defend my preference for large families 
on political grounds: the greater the poor population, the more 
obligated the government would feel to spend money on it. This 
was the dead souls scam with an American twist, and my con-
science was clear. 

That was on one level. At the heart of it was the simple fact 
that I was enjoying myself. It gave me pleasure to pluck names 
out of thin air, to invent lives that had never existed, that never 
would exist. It was not precisely like making up characters in a 
story,  but  something  grander,  something  far  more  unsettling. 
Everyone  knows  that  stories  are  imaginary.  Whatever  effect 
they might have on us, we know they are not true, even when 
they tell us truths more important than the ones we can ﬁnd 
elsewhere.  As  opposed  to  the  story  writer,  I  was  offering  my 
creations  directly  to  the  real  world,  and  therefore  it  seemed 
possible to me that they could affect this real world in a real 
way, that they could eventually become a part of the real itself. 
No writer could ask for more than that. 

246 

the new york trilogy 

All this came back to me when I sat down to write about Fan-
shawe. Once, I had given birth to a thousand imaginary souls. 
Now, eight years later, I was going to take a living man and put 
him in his grave. I was the chief mourner and ofﬁciating clergy-
man at this mock funeral, and my job was to speak the right 
words, to say the thing that everyone wanted to hear. The two 
actions were opposite and identical, mirror images of one an-
other. But this hardly consoled me. The ﬁrst fraud had been a 
joke, no more than a youthful adventure, whereas the second 
fraud was serious, a dark and frightening thing. I was digging a 
grave, after all, and there were times when I began to wonder if 
I was not digging my own. 

Lives make no sense, I argued. A man lives and then he dies, 
and what happens in between makes no sense. I thought of the 
story of La Chère, a soldier who took part in one of the earliest 
French expeditions to America. In 1562, Jean Ribaut left be-
hind a number of men at Port Royal (near Hilton Head, South 
Carolina) under the command of Albert de Pierra, a madman 
who  ruled  through  terror  and  violence.  “He  hanged  with  his 
own hands a drummer who had fallen under his displeasure,” 
Francis  Parkman  writes,  “and  banished  a  soldier,  named  La 
Chère, to a solitary island, three leagues from the fort, where he 
left him to starve.” Albert was eventually murdered in an upris-
ing by his men, and the half-dead La Chère was rescued from 
the island. One would think that La Chère was now safe, that 
having lived through his terrible punishment he would be ex-
empt  from  further  catastrophe.  But  nothing  is  that  simple. 
There are no odds to beat, no rules to set a limit on bad luck, 
and at each moment we begin again, as ripe for a low blow as 
we were the moment before. Things collapsed at the settlement. 
The  men  had  no  talent  for  coping  with  the  wilderness,  and 
famine  and  homesickness  took  over.  Using  a  few  makeshift 
tools, they spent all their energies on building a ship “worthy of 
Robinson Crusoe” to get them back to France. On the Atlantic, 
another catastrophe: there was no wind, their food and water 
ran out. The men began to eat their shoes and leather jerkins, 
some  drank  sea  water  in  desperation,  and  several  died.  Then 
came the inevitable descent into cannibalism. “The lot was cast,” 

the locked room 

247 

Parkman  notes,  “and  it  fell  on  La  Chère,  the  same  wretched 
man whom Albert had doomed to starvation on a lonely island. 
They killed him, and with ravenous avidity portioned out his 
ﬂesh. The hideous repast sustained them till land rose in sight, 
when, it is said, in a delirium of joy, they could no longer steer 
their vessel, but let her drift at the will of the tide. A small En-
glish bark bore down upon them, took them all on board, and, 
after  landing  the  feeblest,  carried  the  rest  prisoners  to  Queen 
Elizabeth.” 

I use La Chère only as an example. As destinies go, his is by 
no  means  strange—perhaps  it  is  even  blander  than  most.  At 
least he travelled along a straight line, and that in itself is rare, 
almost a blessing. In general, lives seem to veer abruptly from 
one thing to another, to jostle and bump, to squirm. A person 
heads  in  one  direction,  turns  sharply  in  mid-course,  stalls, 
drifts, starts up again. Nothing is ever known, and inevitably 
we come to a place quite different from the one we set out for. 
In my ﬁrst year as a student at Columbia, I walked by a bust of 
Lorenzo Da Ponte every day on my way to class. I knew him 
vaguely  as  Mozart’s  librettist,  but  then  I  learned  that  he  had 
also been the ﬁrst Italian professor at Columbia. The one thing 
seemed incompatible with the other, and so I decided to look 
into it, curious to know how one man could wind up living two 
such different lives. As it turned out, Da Ponte lived ﬁve or six. 
He was born Emmanuele Conegliano in 1749, the son of a Jew-
ish leather merchant. After the death of his mother, his father 
made a second marriage to a Catholic and decided that he and 
his children should be baptized. The young Emmanuele showed 
promise  as  a  scholar,  and  by  the  time  he  was  fourteen,  the 
Bishop of Cenada (Monsignore Da Ponte) took the boy under 
his wing and paid all the costs of his education for the priest-
hood. As was the custom of the time, the disciple was given his 
benefactor’s name. Da Ponte was ordained in 1773 and became 
a seminary teacher, with a special interest in Latin, Italian, and 
French literature. In addition to becoming a follower of the En-
lightenment, he took up with a Venetian noble-woman, and se-
cretly fathered a child. In 1776, he sponsored a public debate 
at the seminary in Treviso which posed the question whether 

248 

the new york trilogy 

civilization had succeeded in making mankind any happier. For 
this affront to Church principles, he was forced to take ﬂight— 
ﬁrst to Venice, then to Gorizia, and ﬁnally to Dresden, where he 
began his new career as a librettist. In 1782, he went to Vienna 
with a letter of introduction to Salieri and was eventually hired 
as “poeta dei teatri imperiali,” a position he held for almost ten 
years. It was during this period that he met Mozart and collab-
orated on the three operas that have preserved his name from 
oblivion.  In  1790,  however,  when  Leopold  II  curbed  musical 
activities in Vienna because of the Turkish war, Da Ponte found 
himself out of a job. He went to Trieste and fell in love with an 
English woman named Nancy Grahl or Krahl (the name is still 
disputed). From there the two of them went to Paris, and then 
on  to  London,  where  they  remained  for  thirteen  years.  Da 
Ponte’s musical work was restricted to writing a few libretti for 
undistinguished composers. In 1805, he and Nancy emigrated 
to America, where he lived out the last thirty-three years of his 
life, for a time working as a shopkeeper in New Jersey and Penn-
sylvania,  and  dying  at  the  age  of  eighty-nine—one  of  the  ﬁrst 
Italians to be buried in the New World. Little by little, everything 
had  changed  for  him.  From  the  dapper,  unctuous  ladies’  man 
of his youth, an opportunist steeped in the political intrigues of 
both Church and court, he became a perfectly ordinary citizen of 
New York, which in 1805 must have looked like the end of the 
world to him. From all that to this: a hard-working professor, a 
dutiful  husband,  the  father  of  four.  When  one  of  his  children 
died, it is said, he was so distraught with grief that he refused to 
leave his house for almost a year. The point being that, in the 
end, each life is irreducible to anything other than itself. Which is 
as much as to say: lives make no sense. 

I don’t mean to harp on any of this. But the circumstances 
under which lives shift course are so various that it would seem 
impossible to say anything about a man until he is dead. Not 
only is death the one true arbiter of happiness (Solon’s remark), 
it is the only measurement by which we can judge life itself. I 
once knew a bum who spoke like a Shakespearean actor, a bat-
tered, middle-aged alcoholic with scabs on his face and rags for 
clothes,  who  slept  on  the  street  and  begged  money  from  me 

the locked room 

249 

constantly. Yet he had once been the owner of an art gallery on 
Madison Avenue. There was another man I knew who had once 
been considered the most promising young novelist in America. 
At  the  time  I  met  him,  he  had  just  inherited  ﬁfteen  thousand 
dollars from his father and was standing on a New York street 
corner passing out hundred dollar bills to strangers. It was all 
part  of  a  plan  to  destroy  the  economic  system  of  the  United 
States, he explained to me. Think of what happens. Think of 
how lives burst apart. Goffe and Whalley, for example, two of 
the judges who condemned Charles I to death, came to Con-
necticut after the Restoration and spent the rest of their lives in 
a  cave.  Or  Mrs.  Winchester,  the  widow  of  the  riﬂe  manufac-
turer,  who  feared  that  the  ghosts  of  the  people  killed  by  her 
husband’s  riﬂes  were  coming  to  take  her  soul—and  therefore 
continually added rooms onto her house, creating a monstrous 
labyrinth of corridors and hideouts, so that she could sleep in a 
different  room  every  night  and  thereby  elude  the  ghosts,  the 
irony being that during the San Francisco earthquake of 1906 
she  was  trapped  in  one  of  those  rooms  and  nearly  starved  to 
death because she couldn’t be found by the servants. There is 
also M. M. Bakhtin, the Russian critic and literary philosopher. 
During  the  German  invasion  of  Russia  in  World  War  II,  he 
smoked the only copy of one of his manuscripts, a book-length 
study of German ﬁction that had taken him years to write. One 
by one, he took the pages of his manuscript and used the paper 
to  roll  his  cigarettes,  each  day  smoking  a  little  more  of  the 
book  until  it  was  gone.  These  are  true  stories.  They  are  also 
parables, perhaps, but they mean what they mean only because 
they are true. 

In his work, Fanshawe shows a particular fondness for stories 
of  this  kind.  Especially  in  the  notebooks,  there  is  a  constant 
retelling of little anecdotes, and because they are so frequent— 
and more and more so toward the end—one begins to suspect 
that Fanshawe felt they could somehow help him to understand 
himself.  One  of  the  very  last  (from  February  1976,  just  two 
months before he disappeared) strikes me as signiﬁcant. 

“In a book I once read by Peter Freuchen,” Fanshawe writes, 
“the famous Arctic explorer describes being trapped by a blizzard 

250 

the new york trilogy 

in northern Greenland. Alone, his supplies dwindling, he decided 
to  build  an  igloo  and  wait  out  the  storm.  Many  days  passed. 
Afraid, above all, that he would be attacked by wolves—for he 
heard them prowling hungrily on the roof of his igloo—he would 
periodically step outside and sing at the top of his lungs in order 
to frighten them away. But the wind was blowing ﬁercely, and no 
matter how hard he sang, the only thing he could hear was the 
wind.  If  this  was  a  serious  problem,  however,  the  problem  of 
the igloo itself was much greater. For Freuchen began to notice 
that the walls of his little shelter were gradually closing in on him. 
Because of the particular weather conditions outside, his breath 
was literally freezing to the walls, and with each breath the walls 
became that much thicker, the igloo became that much smaller, 
until eventually there was almost no room left for his body. It is 
surely a frightening thing, to imagine breathing yourself into a 
cofﬁn of ice, and to my mind considerably more compelling than, 
say, The Pit and the Pendulum by Poe. For in this case it is the 
man himself who is the agent of his own destruction, and further, 
the instrument of that destruction is the very thing he needs to 
keep himself alive. For surely a man cannot live if he does not 
breathe. But at the same time, he will not live if he does breathe. 
Curiously, I do not remember how Freuchen managed to escape 
his predicament. But needless to say, he did escape. The title of 
the book, if I recall, is Arctic Adventure. It has been out of print 
for many years.” 

6 

In June of that year (1978), Sophie, Ben, and I went out to New 
Jersey  to  see  Fanshawe’s  mother.  My  parents  no  longer  lived 
next door (they had retired to Florida), and I had not been back 
in years. As Ben’s grandmother, Mrs. Fanshawe had stayed in 
touch  with  us,  but  relations  were  somewhat  difﬁcult.  There 
seemed to be an undercurrent of hostility in her toward Sophie, 
as  though  she  secretly  blamed  her  for  Fanshawe’s  disappear-
ance, and this resentment would surface every now and then in 
some  offhand  remark.  Sophie  and  I  invited  her  to  dinner  at 
reasonable  intervals,  but  she  accepted  only  rarely,  and  then, 
when she did come, she would sit there ﬁdgeting and smiling, 
rattling on in that brittle way of hers, pretending to admire the 
baby,  paying  Sophie  inappropriate  compliments  and  saying 
what a lucky girl she was, and then leave early, always getting 
up in the middle of a conversation and blurting out that she had 
forgotten an appointment somewhere else. Still, it was hard to 
hold it against her. Nothing had gone very well in her life, and 
by now she had more or less stopped hoping it would. Her hus-
band was dead; her daughter had gone through a long series of 
mental  breakdowns  and  was  now  living  on  tranquilizers  in  a 
halfway house; her son had vanished. Still beautiful at ﬁfty (as 
a boy, I thought she was the most ravishing woman I had ever 
seen), she kept herself going with a number of intricate love af-
fairs (the roster of men was always in ﬂux), shopping sprees in 
New York, and a passion for golf. Fanshawe’s literary success 
had taken her by surprise, but now that she had adjusted to it, 
she was perfectly willing to assume responsibility for having 
given  birth  to  a  genius.  When  I  called  to  tell  her  about  the 

252 

the new york trilogy 

biography, she sounded eager to help. She had letters and pho-
tographs and documents, she said, and would show me what-
ever I wanted to see. 

We got there by mid-morning, and after an awkward start, 
followed by a cup of coffee in the kitchen and a long talk about 
the weather, we were taken upstairs to Fanshawe’s old room. 
Mrs. Fanshawe had prepared quite thoroughly for me, and all 
the materials were laid out in neat piles on what had once been 
Fanshawe’s desk. I was stunned by the accumulation. Not know-
ing what to say, I thanked her for being so helpful—but in fact 
I was frightened, overwhelmed by the sheer bulk of what was 
there. A few minutes later, Mrs. Fanshawe went downstairs and 
out  into  the  backyard  with  Sophie  and  Ben  (it  was  a  warm, 
sunny day), and I was left there alone. I remember looking out 
the window and catching a glimpse of Ben as he waddled across 
the grass in his diaper-padded overalls, shrieking and pointing 
as  a  robin  skimmed  overhead.  I  tapped  on  the  window,  and 
when Sophie turned around and looked up, I waved to her. She 
smiled, blew me a kiss, and then walked off to inspect a ﬂower 
bed with Mrs. Fanshawe. 

I settled down behind the desk. It was a terrible thing to be 
sitting in that room, and I didn’t know how long I would be 
able to take it. Fanshawe’s baseball glove lay on a shelf with a 
scuffed-up baseball inside it; on the shelves above it and below 
it were the books he had read as a child; directly behind me was 
the bed, with the same blue-and-white checkered quilt I remem-
bered from years before. This was the tangible evidence, the re-
mains of a dead world. I had stepped into the museum of my 
own past, and what I found there nearly crushed me. 

In  one  pile:  Fanshawe’s  birth  certiﬁcate,  Fanshawe’s  report 
cards from school, Fanshawe’s Cub Scout badges, Fanshawe’s 
high school diploma. In another pile: photographs. An album 
of Fanshawe as a baby; an album of Fanshawe and his sister; an 
album of the family (Fanshawe as a two-year-old smiling in his 
father’s arms, Fanshawe and Ellen hugging their mother on the 
backyard  swing,  Fanshawe  surrounded  by  his  cousins).  And 
then the loose pictures—in folders, in envelopes, in little boxes: 
dozens of Fanshawe and me together (swimming, playing catch, 

the locked room 

253 

riding bikes, mugging in the yard; my father with the two of us 
on his back; the short haircuts, the baggy jeans, the ancient cars 
behind us: a Packard, a DeSoto, a wood-panelled Ford station 
wagon). Class pictures, team pictures, camp pictures. Pictures 
of races, of games. Sitting in a canoe, pulling on a rope in a tug-
of-war. And then, toward the bottom, a few from later years: 
Fanshawe as I had never seen him. Fanshawe standing in Har-
vard Yard; Fanshawe on the deck of an Esso oil tanker; Fan-
shawe in Paris, in front of a stone fountain. Last of all, a single 
picture of Fanshawe and Sophie—Fanshawe looking older, grim-
mer; and Sophie so terribly young, so beautiful, and yet some-
how distracted, as though unable to concentrate. I took a deep 
breath and then started to cry, all of a sudden, not aware until 
the last moment that I had those tears inside me—sobbing hard, 
shuddering with my face in my hands. 

A box to the right of the pictures was ﬁlled with letters, at 
least  a  hundred  of  them,  beginning  at  the  age  of  eight  (the 
clumsy writing of a child, smudged pencil marks and erasures) 
and continuing on through the early seventies. There were let-
ters  from  college,  letters  from  the  ship,  letters  from  France. 
Most  of  them  were  addressed  to  Ellen,  and  many  were  quite 
long.  I  knew  immediately  that  they  were  valuable,  no  doubt 
more  valuable  than  anything  else  in  the  room—but  I  didn’t 
have the heart to read them there. I waited ten or ﬁfteen min-
utes, then went downstairs to join the others. 

Mrs. Fanshawe did not want the originals to leave the house, 
but she had no objection to having the letters photocopied. She 
even  offered  to  do  it  herself,  but  I  told  her  not  to  bother:  I 
would come out again another day and take care of it. 

We had a picnic lunch in the yard. Ben dominated the scene 
by dashing to the ﬂowers and back again between each bite of 
his sandwich, and by two o’clock we were ready to go home. 
Mrs. Fanshawe drove us to the bus station and kissed all three of 
us goodbye, showing more emotion than at any other time dur-
ing  the  visit.  Five  minutes  after  the  bus  started  up,  Ben  fell 
asleep in my lap, and Sophie took hold of my hand. 

“Not such a happy day, was it?” she said. 
“One of the worst,” I said. 

254 

the new york trilogy 

“Imagine having to make conversation with that woman for 
four hours. I ran out of things to say the moment we got there.” 

“She probably doesn’t like us very much.” 
“No, I wouldn’t think so.” 
“But that’s the least of it.” 
“It was hard being up there alone, wasn’t it?” 
“Very hard.” 
“Any second thoughts?” 
“I’m afraid so.” 
“I  don’t  blame  you.  The  whole  thing  is  getting  pretty 

spooky.” 

“I’ll have to think it through again. Right now, I’m beginning 

to feel I’ve made a big mistake.” 

Four days later, Mrs. Fanshawe telephoned to say that she was 
going to Europe for a month and that perhaps it would be a 
good idea for us to take care of our business now (her words). 
I had been planning to let the matter slide, but before I could 
think of a decent excuse for not going out there, I heard myself 
agreeing to make the trip the following Monday. Sophie backed 
off from accompanying me, and I didn’t press her to change her 
mind. We both felt that one family visit had been enough. 

Jane Fanshawe met me at the bus station, all smiles and af-
fectionate  hellos.  From  the  moment  I  climbed  into  her  car,  I 
sensed that things were going to be different this time. She had 
made  an  effort  with  her  appearance  (white  pants,  a  red  silk 
blouse, her tanned, unwrinkled neck exposed), and it was hard 
not to feel that she was enticing me to look at her, to acknowl-
edge the fact that she was still beautiful. But there was more to 
it  than  that:  a  vaguely  insinuating  tone  to  her  voice,  an  as-
sumption that we were somehow old friends, on an intimate 
footing because of the past, and wasn’t it lucky that I had come 
by  myself,  since  now  we  were  free  to  talk  openly  with  each 
other.  I  found  it  all  rather  distasteful  and  said  no  more  than 
I had to.  

“That’s quite a little family you have there, my boy,” she said, 

turning to me as we stopped for a red light. 

“Yes,” I said. “Quite a little family.” 

the locked room 

255 

“The baby is adorable, of course. A regular heartthrob. But a 

bit on the wild side, wouldn’t you say?” 

“He’s  only  two.  Most  children  tend  to  be  high-spirited  at 

that age.” 

“Of  course.  But  I  do  think  that  Sophie  dotes  on  him.  She 
seems so amused all the time, if you know what I mean. I’m 
not  arguing  against  laughter,  but  a  little  discipline  wouldn’t 
hurt either.” 

“Sophie  acts  that  way  with  everyone,”  I  said.  “A  lively 
woman is bound to be a lively mother. As far as I can tell, Ben 
has no complaints.” 

A  slight  pause,  and  then,  as  we  started  up  again,  cruising 
along a broad commercial avenue, Jane Fanshawe added: “She’s 
a  lucky  girl,  that  Sophie.  Lucky  to  have  landed  on  her  feet. 
Lucky to have found a man like you.” 

“I usually think of it the other way around,” I said. 
“You shouldn’t be so modest.” 
“I’m not. It’s just that I know what I’m talking about. So far, 

all the luck has been on my side.” 

She smiled at this—brieﬂy, enigmatically, as though judging 
me a dunce, and yet somehow conceding the point, aware that I 
wasn’t going to give her an opening. By the time we reached her 
house a few minutes later, she seemed to have dropped her ini-
tial tactics. Sophie and Ben were no longer mentioned, and she 
became a model of solicitude, telling me how glad she was that 
I was writing the book about Fanshawe, acting as though her 
encouragement made a real difference—an ultimate sort of ap-
proval, not only of the book but of who I was. Then, handing 
me the keys to her car, she told me how to get to the nearest 
photocopy  store.  Lunch,  she  said,  would  be  waiting  for  me 
when I got back. 

It took more than two hours to copy the letters, which made 
it nearly one o’clock by the time I returned to the house. Lunch 
was indeed there, and it was an impressive spread: asparagus, 
cold salmon, cheeses, white wine, the works. It was all set out 
on  the  dining  room  table,  accompanied  by  ﬂowers  and  what 
were clearly the best dishes. The surprise must have shown on 
my face. 

256 

the new york trilogy 

“I  wanted  to  make  it  festive,”  Mrs.  Fanshawe  said.  “You 
have no idea how good it makes me feel to have you here. All 
the  memories  that  come  back.  It’s  as  though  the  bad  things 
never happened.” 

I suspected that she had already started drinking while I was 
gone. Still in control, still steady in her movements, there was a 
certain thickening that had crept into her voice, a wavering, ef-
fusive quality that had not been there before. As we sat down to 
the table, I told myself to watch it. The wine was poured in lib-
eral  doses,  and  when  I  saw  her  paying  more  attention  to  her 
glass than to her plate, merely picking at her food and eventu-
ally ignoring it altogether, I began to expect the worst. After 
some idle talk about my parents and my two younger sisters, 
the conversation lapsed into a monologue. 

“It’s strange,” she said, “strange how things in life turn out. 
From one moment to the next, you never know what’s going to 
happen. Here you are, the little boy who lived next door. You’re 
the same person who used to run through this house with mud 
on his shoes—all grown up now, a man. You’re the father of my 
grandson, do you realize that? You’re married to my son’s wife. 
If someone had told me ten years ago that this was the future, I 
would  have  laughed.  That’s  what  you  ﬁnally  learn  from  life: 
how strange it is. You can’t keep up with what happens. You 
can’t even imagine it. 

“You even look like him, you know. You always did, the two 
of you—like brothers, almost like twins. I remember how when 
you were both small I would sometimes confuse you from a dis-
tance. I couldn’t even tell which one of you was mine. 

“I  know  how  much  you  loved  him,  how  you  looked  up  to 
him. But let me tell you something, my dear. He wasn’t half the 
boy you were. He was cold inside. He was all dead in there, and 
I don’t think he ever loved anyone—not once, not ever in his 
life.  I’d  sometimes  watch  you  and  your  mother  across  the 
yard—the  way  you  would  run  to  her  and  throw  your  arms 
around her neck, the way you would let her kiss you—and right 
there, smack in front of me, I could see everything I didn’t have 
with my own son. He wouldn’t let me touch him, you know. 
After the age of four or ﬁve, he’d cringe every time I got near 

the locked room 

257 

him. How do you think that makes a woman feel—to have her 
own  son  despise  her?  I  was  so  damned  young  back  then.  I 
wasn’t even twenty when he was born. Imagine what it does to 
you to be rejected like that. 

“I’m not saying that he was bad. He was a separate being, a 
child without parents. Nothing I said ever had an effect on him. 
The same with his father. He refused to learn anything from us. 
Robert tried and tried, but he could never get through to the 
boy. But you can’t punish someone for a lack of affection, can 
you? You can’t force a child to love you just because he’s your 
child. 

“There  was  Ellen,  of  course.  Poor,  tortured  Ellen.  He  was 
good to her, we both know that. But too good somehow, and in 
the end it wasn’t good for her at all. He brainwashed her. He 
made her so dependent on him that she began to think twice be-
fore turning to us. He was the one who understood her, the one 
who  gave  her  advice,  the  one  who  could  solve  her  problems. 
Robert and I were no more than ﬁgureheads. As far as the chil-
dren  were  concerned,  we  hardly  existed.  Ellen  trusted  her 
brother so much that she ﬁnally gave up her soul to him. I’m 
not saying that he knew what he was doing, but I still have to 
live with the results. The girl is twenty-seven years old, but she 
acts as though she were fourteen—and that’s when she’s doing 
well. She’s so confused, so panicked inside herself. One day she 
thinks I’m out to destroy her, the next day she calls me thirty 
times on the telephone. Thirty times. You can’t even begin to 
imagine what it’s like. 

“Ellen’s the reason why he never published any of his work, 
you know. She’s why he quit Harvard after his second year. He 
was writing poetry back then, and every few weeks he would 
send her a batch of manuscripts. You know what those poems 
are  like.  They’re  almost  impossible  to  understand.  Very  pas-
sionate, of course, ﬁlled with all that ranting and exhortation, 
but  so  obscure  you’d  think  they  were  written  in  code.  Ellen 
would spend hours puzzling over them, acting as if her life de-
pended on it, treating the poems as secret messages, oracles writ-
ten  directly  to  her.  I  don’t  think  he  had  any  idea  what  was 
happening. Her brother was gone, you see, and these poems were 

258 

the new york trilogy 

all she had left of him. The poor baby. She was only ﬁfteen at the 
time, and already falling to pieces anyway. She would pore over 
those  pages  until  they  were  all  crumpled  and  dirty,  lugging 
them around with her wherever she went. When she got really 
bad, she would go up to perfect strangers on the bus and force 
them into their hands. ‘Read these poems,’ she’d say. ‘They’ll 
save your life.’ 

“Eventually, of course, she had that ﬁrst breakdown. She wan-
dered  off  from  me  in  the  supermarket  one  day,  and  before  I 
knew  it  she  was  taking  those  big  jugs  of  apple  juice  off  the 
shelves and smashing them on the ﬂoor. One after another, like 
someone in a trance, standing in all that broken glass, her an-
kles bleeding, the juice running everywhere. It was horrible. She 
got so wild, it took three men to restrain her and carry her off. 
“I’m not saying that her brother was responsible. But those 
damned poems certainly didn’t help, and rightly or wrongly he 
blamed himself. From then on, he never tried to publish any-
thing.  He  came  to  visit  Ellen  in  the  hospital,  and  I  think  it 
was too much for him, seeing her like that, totally beside her-
self, totally crazy—screaming at him and accusing him of hat-
ing her. It was a real schizoid break, you know, and he wasn’t 
able to deal with it. That’s when he took the vow not to publish. 
It was a kind of penance, I think, and he stuck to it for the rest 
of his life, didn’t he, he stuck to it in that stubborn, brutal way 
of his, right to the end. 

“About two months later, I got a letter from him informing 
me that he had quit college. He wasn’t asking my advice, mind 
you, he was telling me what he’d done. Dear mother, and so on 
and so forth, all very noble and impressive. I’m dropping out of 
school to relieve you of the ﬁnancial burden of supporting me. 
What with Ellen’s condition, the huge medical costs, the blan-
kety x and y and z, and so on and so forth. 

“I was furious. A boy like that throwing his education away 
for nothing. It was an act of sabotage, but there wasn’t anything 
I could do about it. He was already gone. A friend of his at Har-
vard had a father who had some connection with shipping—I 
think he represented the seamen’s union or something—and he 
managed  to  get  his  papers  through  that  man.  By  the  time  the 

the locked room 

259 

letter  reached  me,  he  was  in  Texas  somewhere,  and  that  was 
that. I didn’t see him again for more than ﬁve years. 

“Every  month  or  so  a  letter  or  postcard  would  come  for 
Ellen, but there was never any return address. Paris, the south of 
France,  God  knows  where,  but  he  made  sure  that  we  didn’t 
have any way of getting in touch with him. I found this behav-
ior despicable. Cowardly and despicable. Don’t ask me why I 
saved  the  letters.  I’m  sorry  I  didn’t  burn  them.  That’s  what  I 
should have done. Burned the whole lot of them.” 

She went on like this for more than an hour, her words grad-
ually mounting in bitterness, at some point reaching a moment 
of sustained clarity, and then, following the next glass of wine, 
gradually losing coherence. Her voice was hypnotic. As long as 
she went on speaking, I felt that nothing could touch me any-
more. There was a sense of being immune, of being protected 
by the words that came from her mouth. I scarcely bothered to 
listen. I was ﬂoating inside that voice, I was surrounded by it, 
buoyed up by its persistence, going with the ﬂow of syllables, 
the rise and fall, the waves. As the afternoon light came stream-
ing through the windows onto the table, sparkling in the sauces, 
the  melting  butter,  the  green  wine  bottles,  everything  in  the 
room became so radiant and still that I began to ﬁnd it unreal 
that I should be sitting there in my own body. I’m melting, I 
said to myself, watching the butter soften in its dish, and once 
or  twice  I  even  thought  that  I  mustn’t  let  this  go  on,  that  I 
mustn’t allow the moment to slip away from me, but in the end 
I did nothing about it, feeling somehow that I couldn’t. 

I make no excuse for what happened. Drunkenness is never 
more than a symptom, not an absolute cause, and I realize that 
it would be wrong of me to try to defend myself. Nevertheless, 
there  is  at  least  the  possibility  of  an  explanation.  I  am  fairly 
certain  now  that  the  things  that  followed  had  as  much  to  do 
with the past as with the present, and I ﬁnd it odd, now that I 
have  some  distance  from  it,  to  see  how  a  number  of  ancient 
feelings ﬁnally caught up with me that afternoon. As I sat there 
listening to Mrs. Fanshawe, it was hard not to remember how I 
had seen her as a boy, and once this began to happen, I found 
myself stumbling onto images that had not been visible to me in 

260 

the new york trilogy 

years.  There  was  one  in  particular  that  struck  me  with  great 
force: an afternoon in August when I was thirteen or fourteen, 
looking through my bedroom window into the yard next door 
and seeing Mrs. Fanshawe walk out in a red two-piece bathing 
suit, casually unhook the top half, and lie down on a lawn chair 
with her back to the sun. All this happened by chance. I had 
been sitting by my window day-dreaming, and then, unexpect-
edly, a beautiful woman comes sauntering into my ﬁeld of vi-
sion, almost naked, unaware of my presence, as though I had 
conjured her myself. This image stayed with me for a long time, 
and I returned to it often during my adolescence: a little boy’s 
lust, the quick of late-night fantasies. Now that this woman was 
apparently  in  the  act  of  seducing  me,  I  hardly  knew  what  to 
think. On the one hand, I found the scene grotesque. On the 
other hand, there was something natural about it, even logical, 
and I sensed that if I didn’t use all my strength to ﬁght it, I was 
going to allow it to happen. 

There’s no question that she made me pity her. Her version of 
Fanshawe was so anguished, so fraught with the signs of gen-
uine unhappiness, that I gradually weakened to her, fell into her 
trap. What I still don’t understand, however, is to what extent 
she was conscious of what she was doing. Had she planned it in 
advance, or did the thing just happen by itself? Was her ram-
bling  speech  a  ploy  to  wear  down  my  resistance,  or  was  it  a 
spontaneous burst of true feeling? I suspect that she was telling 
the truth about Fanshawe, her own truth at any rate, but that is 
not  enough  to  convince  me—for  even  a  child  knows  that  the 
truth can be used for devious ends. More importantly, there is 
the question of motive. Close to six years after the fact, I still 
haven’t come up with an answer. To say that she found me irre-
sistible  would  be  far-fetched,  and  I  am  not  willing  to  delude 
myself about that. It was much deeper, much more sinister. Re-
cently, I’ve begun to wonder if she didn’t somehow sense a ha-
tred  in  me  for  Fanshawe  that  was  just  as  strong  as  her  own. 
Perhaps she felt this unspoken bond between us, perhaps it was 
the kind of bond that could be proved only through some per-
verse,  extravagant  act.  Fucking  me  would  be  like  fucking 

the locked room 

261 

Fanshawe—like fucking her own son—and in the darkness of 
this sin, she would have him again—but only in order to de-
stroy him. A terrible revenge. If this is true, then I do not have 
the luxury of calling myself her victim. If anything, I was her 
accomplice. 

It began not long after she started to cry—when she ﬁnally 
exhausted  herself  and  the  words  broke  apart,  crumbling  into 
tears. Drunk, ﬁlled with emotion, I stood up, walked over to 
where she was sitting, and put my arms around her in a gesture 
of comfort. This carried us across the threshold. Mere contact 
was  enough  to  trigger  a  sexual  response,  a  blind  memory  of 
other bodies, of other embraces, and a moment later we were 
kissing, and then, not many moments after that, lying naked on 
her bed upstairs. 

Although  I  was  drunk,  I  was  not  so  far  gone  that  I  didn’t 
know what I was doing. But not even guilt was enough to stop 
me. This moment will end, I said to myself, and no one will be 
hurt. It has nothing to do with my life, nothing to do with So-
phie. But then, even as it was happening, I discovered there was 
more to it than that. For the fact was that I liked fucking Fan-
shawe’s mother—but in a way that had nothing to do with plea-
sure. I was consumed, and for the ﬁrst time in my life I found 
no  tenderness  inside  me.  I  was  fucking  out  of  hatred,  and  I 
turned it into an act of violence, grinding away at this woman 
as  though  I  wanted  to  pulverize  her.  I  had  entered  my  own 
darkness, and it was there that I learned the one thing that is 
more terrible than anything else: that sexual desire can also be 
the desire to kill, that a moment comes when it is possible for a 
man to choose death over life. This woman wanted me to hurt 
her, and I did, and I found myself revelling in my cruelty. But 
even then I knew that I was only halfway home, that she was no 
more than a shadow, and that I was using her to attack Fan-
shawe himself. As I came into her the second time—the two of 
us covered with sweat, groaning like creatures in a nightmare— 
I ﬁnally understood this. I wanted to kill Fanshawe. I wanted 
Fanshawe to be dead, and I was going to do it. I was going to 
track him down and kill him. 

262 

the new york trilogy 

I left her in the bed asleep, crept out of the room, and called 
for a taxi from the phone downstairs. Half an hour later I was 
on the bus back to New York. At the Port Authority Terminal, I 
went into the men’s room and washed my hands and face, then 
took the subway uptown. I got home just as Sophie was setting 
the table for dinner. 

7 

The worst of it began then. There were so many things to hide 
from Sophie, I could barely show myself to her at all. I turned 
edgy,  remote,  shut  myself  up  in  my  little  workroom,  craved 
only solitude. For a long time Sophie bore with me, acting with 
a patience I had no right to expect, but in the end even she be-
gan  to  wear  out,  and  by  the  middle  of  the  summer  we  had 
started  quarreling,  picking  at  each  other,  squabbling  over 
things that meant nothing. One day I walked into the house and 
found her crying on the bed, and I knew then that I was on the 
verge of smashing my life. 

For Sophie, the problem was the book. If only I would stop 
working on it, then things would return to normal. I had been 
too hasty, she said. The project was a mistake, and I should not 
be stubborn about admitting it. She was right, of course, but I 
kept arguing the other side to her: I had committed myself to 
the book, I had signed a contract for it, and it would be cow-
ardly to back out. What I didn’t tell her was that I no longer 
had any intention of writing it. The book existed for me now 
only in so far as it could lead me to Fanshawe, and beyond that 
there was no book at all. It had become a private matter for me, 
something no longer connected to writing. All the research for 
the biography, all the facts I would uncover as I dug into his 
past,  all  the  work  that  seemed  to  belong  to  the  book—these 
were the very things I would use to ﬁnd out where he was. Poor 
Sophie. She never had the slightest notion of what I was up to— 
for what I claimed to be doing was in fact no different from 
what I actually did. I was piecing together the story of a man’s 
life.  I  was  gathering  information,  collecting  names,  places, 

264 

the new york trilogy 

dates, establishing a chronology of events. Why I persisted like 
this still bafﬂes me. Everything had been reduced to a single im-
pulse: to ﬁnd Fanshawe, to speak to Fanshawe, to confront Fan-
shawe one last time. But I could never take it farther than that, 
could never pin down an image of what I was hoping to achieve 
by such an encounter. Fanshawe had written that he would kill 
me, but that threat did not scare me off. I knew that I had to 
ﬁnd him—that nothing would be settled until I did. This was 
the  given,  the  ﬁrst  principle,  the  mystery  of  faith:  I  acknowl-
edged it, but I did not bother to question it. 

In the end, I don’t think that I really intended to kill him. The 
murderous vision that had come to me with Mrs. Fanshawe did 
not last, at least not on any conscious level. There were times 
when little scenes would ﬂash through my head—of strangling 
Fanshawe, of stabbing him, of shooting him in the heart—but 
others had died similar deaths inside me over the years, and I 
did not pay much attention to them. The strange thing was not 
that I might have wanted to kill Fanshawe, but that I sometimes 
imagined he wanted me to kill him. This happened only once or 
twice—at  moments  of  extreme  lucidity—and  I  became  con-
vinced that this was the true meaning of the letter he had writ-
ten.  Fanshawe  was  waiting  for  me.  He  had  chosen  me  as  his 
executioner, and he knew that he could trust me to carry out the 
job.  But  that  was  precisely  why  I  wasn’t  going  to  do  it.  Fan-
shawe’s power had to be broken, not submitted to. The point 
was to prove to him that I no longer cared—that was the crux 
of it: to treat him as a dead man, even though he was alive. But 
before I proved this to Fanshawe, I had to prove it to myself, 
and the fact that I needed to prove it was proof that I still cared 
too  much.  It  was  not  enough  for  me  to  let  things  take  their 
course. I had to shake them up, bring them to a head. Because I 
still doubted myself, I needed to run risks, to test myself before 
the  greatest  possible  danger.  Killing  Fanshawe  would  mean 
nothing.  The  point  was  to  ﬁnd  him  alive—and  then  to  walk 
away from him alive. 

The letters to Ellen were useful. Unlike the notebooks, which 
tended to be speculative and devoid of detail, the letters were 

the locked room 

265 

highly speciﬁc. I sensed that Fanshawe was making an effort to 
entertain  his  sister,  to  cheer  her  up  with  amusing  stories,  and 
consequently the references were more personal than elsewhere. 
Names, for example, were often mentioned—of college friends, 
of shipmates, of people he knew in France. And if there were no 
return addresses on the envelopes, there were nevertheless many 
places discussed: Baytown, Corpus Christi, Charleston, Baton 
Rouge,  Tampa,  different  neighborhoods  in  Paris,  a  village  in 
southern France. These things were enough to get me started, 
and for several weeks I sat in my room making lists, correlating 
people with places, places with times, times with people, draw-
ing maps and calendars, looking up addresses, writing letters. I 
was hunting for leads, and anything that held even the slightest 
promise I tried to pursue. My assumption was that somewhere 
along  the  line  Fanshawe  had  made  a  mistake—that  someone 
knew where he was, that someone from the past had seen him. 
This was by no means sure, but it seemed like the only plausi-
ble way to begin. 

The college letters are rather plodding and sincere—accounts 
of books read, discussions with friends, descriptions of dormi-
tory life—but these come from the period before Ellen’s break-
down,  and  they  have  an  intimate,  conﬁdential  tone  that  the 
future  letters  abandon.  On  the  ship,  for  example,  Fanshawe 
rarely says anything about himself—except as it might pertain 
to an anecdote he has chosen to tell. We see him trying to ﬁt 
into his new surroundings, playing cards in the dayroom with 
an oiler from Louisiana (and winning), playing pool in various 
low-life bars ashore (and winning), and then explaining his suc-
cess as a ﬂuke: “I’m so geared up not to fall on my face I’ve 
somehow gone beyond myself. A surge of adrenaline, I think.” 
Descriptions of working overtime in the engine room, “a hun-
dred and forty degrees, if you can believe it—my sneakers ﬁlled 
up with so much sweat, they squished as though I’d been walk-
ing in puddles”; of having a wisdom tooth pulled by a drunken 
dentist in Baytown, Texas, “blood all over the place, and little 
bits of tooth cluttering the hole in my gums for a week.” As a 
newcomer with no seniority, Fanshawe was moved from job to 
job. At each port there were crew members who left the ship to 

266 

the new york trilogy 

go home and others who came aboard to take their places, and 
if one of these fresh arrivals preferred Fanshawe’s job to the one 
that was open, the Kid (as he was called) would be bumped to 
something else. Fanshawe therefore worked variously as an or-
dinary  seaman  (scraping  and  painting  the  deck),  as  a  utility 
man (mopping ﬂoors, making beds, cleaning toilets), and as a 
messman (serving food and washing dishes). This last job was 
the hardest, but it was also the most interesting, since ship life 
chieﬂy revolves around the subject of food: the great appetites 
nurtured by boredom, the men literally living from one meal to 
the next, the surprising delicacy of some of them (fat, coarse 
men  judging  dishes  with  the  haughtiness  and  disdain  of 
eighteenth-century  French  dukes).  But  Fanshawe  was  given 
good advice by an oldtimer the day he started the job: “Don’t 
take no shit from no one,” the man said. “If a guy complains 
about the food, tell him to button it. If he keeps it up, act like 
he’s not there and serve him last. If that don’t do the trick, tell 
him you’ll put ice water in his soup the next time. Even better, 
tell him you’ll piss in it. You gotta let them know who’s boss.” 
We see Fanshawe carrying the captain his breakfast one morn-
ing after a night of violent storms off Cape Hatteras: Fanshawe 
putting the grapefruit, the scrambled eggs, and the toast on a 
tray, wrapping the tray in tinfoil, then further wrapping it in 
towels, hoping the plates will not blow off into the water when 
he reaches the bridge (since the wind is holding at seventy miles 
per  hour);  Fanshawe  then  climbing  up  the  ladder,  taking  his 
ﬁrst steps on the bridge, and then, suddenly, as the wind hits 
him, doing a wild pirouette—the ferocious air shooting under 
the  tray  and  pulling  his  arms  up  over  his  head,  as  though  he 
were holding onto a primitive ﬂying machine, about to launch 
himself over the water; Fanshawe, summoning all his strength 
to  pull  down  the  tray,  ﬁnally  wrestling  it  to  a  position  ﬂat 
against his chest, the plates miraculously not slipping, and then, 
step by struggling step, walking the length of the bridge, a tiny 
figure dwarfed by the havoc of the air around him; Fanshawe, 
after how many minutes, making it to the other end, entering the 
forecastle, ﬁnding the plump captain behind the wheel, saying, 
“Your  breakfast,  captain,”  and  the  helmsman  turning,  giving 

the locked room 

267 

him  the  briefest  glance  of  recognition  and  replying,  in  a  dis-
tracted voice, “Thanks, kid. Just put it on the table over there.” 
Not everything was so amusing to Fanshawe, however. There 
is mention of a ﬁght (no details given) that seems to have dis-
turbed him, along with several ugly scenes he witnessed ashore. 
An instance of nigger-baiting in a Tampa bar, for example: a 
crowd  of  drunks  ganging  up  on  an  old  black  man  who  had 
wandered in with a large American ﬂag—wanting to sell it— 
and  the  ﬁrst  drunk  opening  the  ﬂag  and  saying  there  weren’t 
enough stars on it—“this ﬂag’s a fake”—and the old man deny-
ing  it,  almost  grovelling  for  mercy,  as  the  other  drunks  start 
grumbling in support of the ﬁrst—the whole thing ending when 
the old man is pushed out the door, landing ﬂat on the sidewalk, 
and the drunks nodding approval, dismissing the matter with a 
few comments about making the world safe for democracy. “I 
felt humiliated,” Fanshawe wrote, “ashamed of myself for be-
ing there.” 

Still, the letters are basically jocular in tone (“Call me Red-
burn,” one of them begins), and by the end one senses that Fan-
shawe has managed to prove something to himself. The ship is 
no more than an excuse, an arbitrary otherness, a way to test 
himself against the unknown. As with any initiation, survival 
itself  is  the  triumph.  What  begin  as  possible  liabilities—his 
Harvard  education,  his  middle-class  background—he  eventu-
ally turns to his advantage, and by the end of his stint he is the 
acknowledged intellectual of the crew, no longer just the “Kid” 
but at times also the “Professor,” brought in to arbitrate dis-
putes (who was the twenty-third President, what is the popula-
tion of Florida, who played left ﬁeld for the 1947 Giants) and 
consulted regularly as a source of obscure information. Crew 
members  ask  his  help  in  ﬁlling  out  bureaucratic  forms  (tax 
schedules, insurance questionnaires, accident reports), and some 
even ask him to write letters for them (in one case, seventeen 
love  letters  for  Otis  Smart  to  his  girlfriend  Sue-Ann  in  Dido, 
Louisiana). The point is not that Fanshawe becomes the center 
of attention, but that he manages to ﬁt in, to ﬁnd a place for 
himself. The true test, after all, is to be like everyone else. Once 
that happens, he no longer has to question his singularity. He is 

268 

the new york trilogy 

free—not only of others, but of himself. The ultimate proof of 
this, I think, is that when he leaves the ship, he says goodbye to 
no one. He signs off one night in Charleston, collects his pay 
from the captain, and then just disappears. Two weeks later he 
arrives in Paris. 

No word for two months. And then, for the next three months, 
nothing but postcards. Brief, elliptical messages scrawled on the 
back  of  commonplace  tourist  shots:  Sacré-Coeur,  the  Eiffel 
Tower,  the  Conciergerie.  When  the  letters  do  begin  to  come, 
they arrive ﬁtfully, and say nothing of any great importance. We 
know that by now Fanshawe is deep into his work (numerous 
early poems, a ﬁrst draft of Blackouts), but the letters give no 
real sense of the life he is leading. One feels that he is in conﬂict, 
unsure of himself in regard to Ellen, not wanting to lose touch 
with her and yet unable to decide how much or how little to tell 
her. (And the fact is that most of these letters are not even read 
by  Ellen.  Addressed  to  the  house  in  New  Jersey,  they  are  of 
course  opened  by  Mrs.  Fanshawe,  who  screens  them  before 
showing them to her daughter—and more often than not, Ellen 
does  not  see  them.  Fanshawe,  I  think,  must  have  known  this 
would happen, at least would have suspected it. Which further 
complicates the matter—since in some way these letters are not 
written to Ellen at all. Ellen, ﬁnally, is no more than a literary 
device,  the  medium  through  which  Fanshawe  communicates 
with his mother. Hence her anger. For even as he speaks to her, 
he can pretend to ignore her.) For about a year the letters dwell 
almost exclusively on objects (buildings, streets, descriptions of 
Paris),  hashing  out  meticulous  catalogues  of  things  seen  and 
heard, but Fanshawe himself is hardly present. Then, gradually, 
we begin to see some of his acquaintances, to sense a slow grav-
itation towards the anecdote—but still, the stories are divorced 
from  any  context,  which  gives  them  a  ﬂoating,  disembodied 
quality. We see, for example, an old Russian composer by the 
name  of  Ivan  Wyshnegradsky,  now  nearly  eighty  years  old— 
impoverished, a widower, living alone in a shabby apartment on 
the rue Mademoiselle. “I see this man more than anyone else,” 
Fanshawe declares. Then not a word about their friendship, not 
a  glimmer  of  what  they  say  to  each  other.  Instead,  there  is  a 

the locked room 

269 

lengthy description of the quarter-tone piano in the apartment, 
with its enormous bulk and multiple keyboards (built for Wysh-
negradsky in Prague almost ﬁfty years before, and one of only 
three quarter-tone pianos in Europe), and then, making no fur-
ther allusions to the composer’s career, the story of how Fan-
shawe  gives  the  old  man  a  refrigerator.  “I  was  moving  to 
another  apartment  last  month,”  Fanshawe  writes.  “Since  the 
place was furnished with a new refrigerator, I decided to give the 
old one to Ivan as a present. Like many people in Paris, he has 
never had a refrigerator—storing his food for all these years in a 
little box in the wall of his kitchen. He seemed quite pleased by 
the offer, and I made all the arrangements to have it delivered to 
his  house—carrying  it  upstairs  with  the  help  of  the  man  who 
drove the truck. Ivan greeted the arrival of this machine as an 
important event in his life—bubbling over like a small child— 
and yet he was wary, I could see that, even a bit daunted, not 
quite sure what to make of this alien object. ‘It’s so big,’ he kept 
saying, as we worked it into place, and then, when we plugged it 
in and the motor started up—‘Such a lot of noise.’ I assured him 
that he would get used to it, pointing out all the advantages of 
this modern convenience, all the ways in which his life would be 
improved.  I  felt  like  a  missionary:  big  Father  Know-It-All,  re-
deeming the life of this stone-age man by showing him the true 
religion. A week or so went by, and Ivan called me nearly every 
day to tell me how happy he was with the refrigerator, describ-
ing all the new foods he was able to buy and keep in his house. 
Then disaster. ‘I think it’s broken,’ he said to me one day, sound-
ing very contrite. The little freezer section on top had apparently 
ﬁlled up with frost, and not knowing how to get rid of it, he had 
used a hammer, banging away not only at the ice but at the coils 
below it. ‘My dear friend,’ he said, ‘I’m very sorry.’ I told him 
not to fret—I would ﬁnd a repairman to ﬁx it. A long pause on 
the other end. ‘Well,’ he said at last, ‘I think maybe it’s better this 
way. The noise, you know. It makes it very hard to concentrate. 
I’ve lived so long with my little box in the wall, I feel rather at-
tached to it. My dear friend, don’t be angry. I’m afraid there’s 
nothing to be done with an old man like me. You get to a certain 
point in life, and then it’s too late to change.’ ” 

270 

the new york trilogy 

Further letters continue this trend, with various names men-
tioned,  various  jobs  alluded  to.  I  gather  that  the  money  Fan-
shawe  earned  on  the  ship  lasted  for  about  a  year  and  that 
afterwards he scrambled as best he could. For a time it seems 
that he translated a series of art books; at another time there is 
evidence  that  he  worked  as  an  English  tutor  for  several  lycée 
students; still again, it seems that he worked the graveyard shift 
one summer at the New York Times Paris ofﬁce as a switch-
board operator (which, if nothing else, indicates that he had be-
come ﬂuent in French); and then there is a rather curious period 
during  which  he  worked  off  and  on  for  a  movie  producer— 
revising treatments, translating, preparing script synopses. Al-
though  there  are  few  autobiographical  allusions  in  any  of 
Fanshawe’s works, I believe that certain incidents in Neverland 
can be traced back to this last experience (Montag’s house in 
chapter seven; Flood’s dream in chapter thirty). “The strange 
thing about this man,” Fanshawe writes (referring to the movie 
producer in one of his letters), “is that while his ﬁnancial deal-
ings with the rich border on the criminal (cutthroat tactics, out-
right lying), he is quite gentle with those down on their luck. 
People who owe him money are rarely sued or taken to court— 
but are given a chance to work off their debts by rendering him 
services. His chauffeur, for example, is a destitute marquis who 
drives around in a white Mercedes. There is an old baron who 
does nothing but xerox papers. Every time I visit the apartment 
to turn in my work, there is some new lackey standing in the 
corner,  some  decrepit  nobleman  hiding  behind  the  curtains, 
some elegant ﬁnancier who turns out to be the messenger boy. 
Nor does anything go to waste. When the ex-director who had 
been living in the maid’s room on the sixth ﬂoor committed sui-
cide last month, I inherited his overcoat—and have been wear-
ing it ever since. A long black affair that comes down almost to 
my ankles. It makes me look like a spy.” 

As  for  Fanshawe’s  private  life,  there  are  only  the  vaguest 
hints.  A  dinner  party  is  referred  to,  a  painter’s  studio  is  de-
scribed, the name Anne sneaks out once or twice—but the na-
ture of these connections is obscure. This was the kind of thing 
I  needed,  however.  By  doing  the  necessary  legwork,  by  going 

the locked room 

271 

out and asking enough questions, I ﬁgured I would eventually 
be able to track some of these people down. 

Besides a three-week trip to Ireland (Dublin, Cork, Limerick, 
Sligo),  Fanshawe  seems  to  have  remained  more  or  less  ﬁxed. 
The ﬁnal draft of Blackouts was completed at some point dur-
ing  his  second  year  in  Paris;  Miracles  was  written  during  the 
third, along with forty or ﬁfty short poems. All this is rather 
easy to determine—since it was around this time that Fanshawe 
developed the habit of dating his work. Still unclear is the pre-
cise moment when he left Paris for the country, but I believe it 
falls somewhere between June and September of 1971. The let-
ters become sparse just then, and even the notebooks give no 
more than a list of the books he was reading (Raleigh’s History 
of the World and The Journeys of Cabeza de Vaca). But once he 
is ensconced in the country house, he gives a fairly elaborate ac-
count of how he wound up there. The details are unimportant 
in  themselves,  but  one  crucial  thing  emerges:  while  living  in 
France Fanshawe did not hide the fact that he was a writer. His 
friends knew about his work, and if there was ever any secret, it 
was  only  meant  for  his  family.  This  is  a  deﬁnite  slip  on  his 
part—the only time in any of the letters he gives himself away. 
“The  Dedmons,  an  American  couple  I  know  in  Paris,”  he 
writes, “are unable to visit their country house for the next year 
(they’re going to Japan). Since the place has been broken into 
once or twice, they’re reluctant to leave it empty—and have of-
fered me the job of caretaker. Not only do I get it rent-free, but 
I’m also given the use of a car and a small salary (enough to get 
by on if I’m very careful). This is a lucky break. They said they 
would much rather pay me to sit in the house and write for a 
year than rent it out to strangers.” A small point, perhaps, but 
when I came across it in the letter, I was heartened. Fanshawe 
had momentarily let down his guard—and if it happened once, 
there was no reason to assume it could not happen again. 

As examples of writing, the letters from the country surpass 
all the others. By now, Fanshawe’s eye has become incredibly 
sharp, and one senses a new availability of words inside him, as 
though the distance between seeing and writing had been nar-
rowed,  the  two  acts  now  almost  identical,  part  of  a  single, 

272 

the new york trilogy 

unbroken gesture. Fanshawe is preoccupied by the landscape, 
and  he  keeps  returning  to  it,  endlessly  watching  it,  endlessly 
recording its changes. His patience before these things is never 
less than remarkable, and there are passages of nature writing 
in  both  the  letters  and  notebooks  as  luminous  as  any  I  have 
read. The stone house he lives in (walls two feet thick) was built 
during the Revolution: on one side is a small vineyard, on the 
other side is a meadow where sheep graze; there is a forest be-
hind (magpies, rooks, wild boar), and in front, across the road, 
are the cliffs that lead up to the village (population forty). On 
these same cliffs, hidden in a tangle of bushes and trees, are the 
ruins of a chapel that once belonged to the Knights Templars. 
Broom,  thyme,  scrub  oak,  red  soil,  white  clay,  the  Mistral— 
Fanshawe lives amidst these things for more than a year, and 
little  by  little  they  seem  to  alter  him,  to  ground  him  more 
deeply in himself. I hesitate to talk about a religious or mystical 
experience (these terms mean nothing to me), but from all the 
evidence it seems that Fanshawe was alone for the whole time, 
barely seeing anyone, barely even opening his mouth. The strin-
gency of this life disciplined him. Solitude became a passageway 
into the self, an instrument of discovery. Although he was still 
quite young at the time, I believe this period marked the begin-
ning of his maturity as a writer. From now on, the work is no 
longer  promising—it  is  fulﬁlled,  accomplished,  unmistakably 
his own. Starting with the long sequence of poems written in 
the country (Ground Work), and then on through the plays and 
Neverland (all written in New York), Fanshawe is in full ﬂower. 
One looks for traces of madness, for signs of the thinking that 
eventually  turned  him  against  himself—but  the  work  reveals 
nothing of the sort. Fanshawe is no doubt an unusual person, 
but to all appearances he is sane, and when he returns to Amer-
ica in the fall of 1972, he seems totally in command of himself. 

My ﬁrst answers came from the people Fanshawe had known at 
Harvard.  The  word  biography  seemed  to  open  doors  for  me, 
and I had no trouble getting appointments to see most of them. 
I saw his freshman roommate; I saw several of his friends; I saw 
two or three of the Radcliffe girls he had dated. Nothing much 

the locked room 

273 

came of it, however. Of all the people I met, only one said any-
thing of interest. This was Paul Schiff, whose father had made 
the arrangements for Fanshawe’s job on the oil tanker. Schiff 
was now a pediatrician in Westchester County, and we spoke in 
his ofﬁce one evening until quite late. There was an earnestness 
about him that I liked (a small, intense man, his hair already 
thinning, with steady eyes and a soft, resonant voice), and he 
talked  openly,  without  any  prodding.  Fanshawe  had  been  an 
important person in his life, and he remembered their friend-
ship well. “I was a diligent boy,” Schiff said. “Hard-working, 
obedient, without much imagination. Fanshawe wasn’t intimi-
dated by Harvard the way the rest of us were, and I think I was 
in awe of that. He had read more than anyone else—more po-
ets,  more  philosophers,  more  novelists—but  the  business  of 
school  seemed  to  bore  him.  He  didn’t  care  about  grades,  cut 
class a lot, just seemed to go his own way. In freshman year, we 
lived down the hall from each other, and for some reason he 
picked me out to be his friend. After that, I sort of tagged along 
after  him.  Fanshawe  had  so  many  ideas  about  everything,  I 
think I learned more from him than from any of my classes. It 
was  a  bad  case  of  hero-worship,  I  suppose—but  Fanshawe 
helped  me,  and  I  haven’t  forgotten  it.  He  was  the  one  who 
taught me to think for myself, to make my own choices. If it 
hadn’t  been  for  him,  I  never  would  have  become  a  doctor.  I 
switched  to  premed  because  he  convinced  me  to  do  what  I 
wanted to do, and I’m still grateful to him for it. 

“Midway through our second year, Fanshawe told me that he 
was  going  to  quit  school.  It  didn’t  really  surprise  me.  Cam-
bridge wasn’t the right place for Fanshawe, and I knew that he 
was restless, itching to get away. I talked to my father, who rep-
resented  the  seamen’s  union,  and  he  worked  out  that  job  for 
Fanshawe on the ship.  It was  arranged very neatly. Fanshawe 
was whisked through all the paperwork, and a few weeks later 
he  was  off.  I  heard  from  him  several  times—postcards  from 
here and there. Hi, how are you, that kind of thing. It didn’t 
bother me though, and I was glad that I’d been able to do some-
thing for him. But then, all those good feelings eventually blew 
up in my face. I was in the city one day about four years ago, 

274 

the new york trilogy 

walking  along  Fifth  Avenue,  and  I  ran  into  Fanshawe,  right 
there on the street. I was delighted to see him, really surprised 
and happy, but he hardly even talked to me. It was as though 
he’d forgotten who I was. Very stiff, almost rude. I had to force 
my address and phone number into his hand. He promised to 
call, but of course he never did. It hurt a lot, I can tell you. The 
son-of-a-bitch, I thought to myself, who does he think he is? He 
wouldn’t even tell me what he was doing—just evaded my ques-
tions and sauntered off. So much for college days, I thought. So 
much  for  friendship.  It  left  an  ugly  taste  in  my  mouth.  Last 
year, my wife bought one of his books and gave it to me as a 
birthday  present.  I  know  it’s  childish,  but  I  haven’t  had  the 
heart to open it. It just sits there on the shelf collecting dust. It’s 
very  strange,  isn’t  it?  Everyone  says  it’s  a  masterpiece,  but  I 
don’t think I can ever bring myself to read it.” 

This  was  the  most  lucid  commentary  I  got  from  anyone. 
Some of the oil tanker shipmates had things to say, but nothing 
that really served my purpose. Otis Smart, for example, remem-
bered  the  love  letters  Fanshawe  had  written  for  him.  When  I 
reached him by telephone in Baton Rouge, he went on about 
them  at  great  length,  even  quoting  some  of  the  phrases  Fan-
shawe had made up (“my darling twinkle-toes,” “my pumpkin 
squash woman,” “my wallowdream wickedness,” and so on), 
laughing as he spoke. The damndest thing was, he said, that the 
whole  time  he  was  sending  those  letters  to  Sue-Ann,  she  was 
fooling around with someone else, and the day he got home she 
announced  to  him  that  she  was  getting  married.  “It’s  just  as 
well,” Smart added. “I ran into Sue-Ann back home last year, 
and she’s up to about three hundred pounds now. She looks like 
a cartoon fat lady—strutting down the street in orange stretch 
pants  with  a  mess  of  brats  bawling  around  her.  It  made  me 
laugh,  it  did—remembering  the  letters.  That  Fanshawe  really 
cracked me up. He’d get going with some of those lines of his, 
and  I’d  start  rolling  on  the  ﬂoor  like  a  monkey.  It’s  too  bad 
about what happened. You hate to hear about a guy punching 
his ticket so young.” 

Jeffrey Brown, now a chef in a Houston restaurant, had been 
the assistant cook on the ship. He remembered Fanshawe as the 

the locked room 

275 

one  white  crew  member  who  had  been  friendly  to  him.  “It 
wasn’t  easy,”  Brown  said.  “The  crew  was  mostly  a  bunch  of 
rednecks, and they’d just as soon spit at me as say hello. But 
Fanshawe stuck by me, didn’t care what anyone thought. When 
we got into Baytown and places like that, we’d go ashore to-
gether for drinks, for girls, whatever. I knew those towns better 
than Fanshawe did, and I told him that if he wanted to stick 
with  me,  we  couldn’t  go  into  the  regular  sailors’  bars.  I  knew 
what my ass would be worth in places like that, and I didn’t want 
trouble.  No  problem,  Fanshawe  said,  and  off  we’d  go  to  the 
black sections, no problem at all. Most of the time, things were 
pretty  calm  on  the  ship—nothing  I  couldn’t  handle.  But  then 
this  rough  customer  came  on  for  a  few  weeks.  A  guy  named 
Cutbirth, if you can believe it, Roy Cutbirth. He was a stupid 
honky oiler who ﬁnally got thrown off the ship when the Chief 
Engineer ﬁgured out he didn’t know squat about engines. He’d 
cheated on his oiler’s test to get the job—just the man to have 
down there if you want to blow up the ship. This Cutbirth was 
dumb, mean and dumb. He had those tattoos on his knuckles— 
a letter on each ﬁnger: L-O-V-E on the right hand, H-A-T-E on 
the left. When you see that kind of crazy shit, you just want to 
keep away. This guy once bragged to Fanshawe about how he 
used  to  spend  his  Saturday  nights  back  home  in  Alabama— 
sitting  on  a  hill  over  the  interstate  and  shooting  at  cars.  A 
charming fellow, no matter how you put it. And then there was 
this sick eye he had, all bloodshot and messed up. But he liked 
to brag about that, too. Seems he got it one day when a piece of 
glass ﬂew into it. That was in Selma, he said, throwing bottles 
at Martin Luther King. I don’t have to tell you that this Cut-
birth  wasn’t  my  bosom  buddy.  He  used  to  give  me  a  lot  of 
stares, muttering under his breath and nodding to himself, but I 
paid no attention. Things went on like that for a while. Then he 
tried it with Fanshawe around, and the way it came out, it was 
just a little too loud for Fanshawe to ignore. He stops, turns to 
Cutbirth, and says, ‘What did you say?’ And Cutbirth, all tough 
and cocky, says something like ‘I was just wondering when you 
and  the  jungle  bunny  are  getting  married,  sweetheart.’  Well, 
Fanshawe was always peaceable and friendly, a real gentleman, 

276 

the new york trilogy 

if you know what I mean, and so I wasn’t expecting what hap-
pened. It was like watching that hulk on the t.v., the man who 
turns into a beast. All of a sudden he got angry, I mean raging, 
damned near beside himself with anger. He grabbed Cutbirth 
by  the  shirt  and  just  threw  him  against  the  wall,  just  pinned 
him there and held on, breathing right into his face. ‘Don’t ever 
say that again,’ Fanshawe says, his eyes all on ﬁre. ‘Don’t ever 
say that again, or I’ll kill you.’ And damned if you didn’t believe 
him when he said it. The guy was ready to kill, and Cutbirth 
knew it. ‘Just joking,’ he says. ‘Just making a little joke.’ And 
that was the end of it—real fast. The whole thing didn’t take 
more  than  half  a  blink.  About  two  days  later,  Cutbirth  got 
ﬁred.  A  lucky  thing,  too.  If  he’d  stayed  around  any  longer, 
there’s no telling what might have happened.” 

I got dozens of statements like this one—from letters, from 
phone conversations, from interviews. It went on for months, 
and each day the material expanded, grew in geometric surges, 
accumulating more and more associations, a chain of contacts 
that  eventually  took  on  a  life  of  its  own.  It  was  an  inﬁnitely 
hungry organism, and in the end I saw that there was nothing to 
prevent  it  from  becoming  as  large  as  the  world  itself.  A  life 
touches one life, which in turn touches another life, and very 
quickly the links are innumerable, beyond calculation. I knew 
about a fat woman in a small Louisiana town; I knew about a 
demented racist with tattoos on his ﬁngers and a name that de-
ﬁed understanding. I knew about dozens of people I had never 
heard of before, and each one had been a part of Fanshawe’s 
life. All well and good, perhaps, and one might say that this sur-
plus of knowledge was the very thing that proved I was getting 
somewhere. I was a detective, after all, and my job was to hunt 
for clues. Faced with a million bits of random information, led 
down a million paths of false inquiry, I had to ﬁnd the one path 
that would take me where I wanted to go. So far, the essential 
fact was that I hadn’t found it. None of these people had seen or 
heard from Fanshawe in years, and short of doubting everything 
they told me, short of beginning an investigation into each one 
of them, I had to assume they were telling the truth. 

the locked room 

277 

What it boiled down to, I think, was a question of method. In 
some sense, I already knew everything there was to know about 
Fanshawe. The things I learned did not teach me anything im-
portant, did not go against any of the things I already knew. 
Or, to put it another way: the Fanshawe I had known was not 
the same Fanshawe I was looking for. There had been a break 
somewhere, a sudden, incomprehensible break—and the things 
I was told by the various people I questioned did not account 
for it. In the end, their statements only conﬁrmend that what 
happened  could  not  possibly  have  happened.  That  Fanshawe 
was kind, that Fanshawe was cruel—this was an old story, and 
I already knew it by heart. What I was looking for was some-
thing different, something I could not even imagine: a purely ir-
rational act, a thing totally out of character, a contradiction of 
everything Fanshawe had been up to the moment he vanished. I 
kept trying to leap into the unknown, but each time I landed, I 
found myself on home ground, surrounded by what was most 
familiar to me. 

The farther I went, the more the possibilities narrowed. Per-
haps  that  was  a  good  thing,  I  don’t  know.  If  nothing  else,  I 
knew that each time I failed, there would be one less place to 
look. Months went by, more months than I would like to ad-
mit. In February and March I spent most of my time looking 
for  Quinn,  the  private  detective  who  had  worked  for  Sophie. 
Strangely enough, I couldn’t ﬁnd a trace of him. It seemed that 
he was no longer in business—not in New York, not anywhere. 
For  a  while  I  investigated  reports  of  unclaimed  bodies,  ques-
tioned  people  who  worked  at  the  city  morgue,  tried  to  track 
down his family—but nothing came of it. As a last resort, I con-
sidered  hiring  another  private  detective  to  look  for  him,  but 
then decided not to. One missing man was enough, I felt, and 
then, little by little, I used up the possibilities that were left. By 
mid-April, I was down to the last one. I held out for a few more 
days, hoping I would get lucky, but nothing developed. On the 
morning  of  the  twenty-ﬁrst,  I  ﬁnally  walked  into  a  travel 
agency and booked a ﬂight to Paris. 

278 

the new york trilogy 

I was supposed to leave on a Friday. On Tuesday, Sophie and I 
went shopping for a record player. One of her younger sisters 
was about to move to New York, and we were planning to give 
her our old record player as a present. The idea of replacing it 
had been in the air for several months, and this ﬁnally gave us 
an excuse to go looking for a new one. So we went downtown 
that Tuesday, bought the thing, and then lugged it home in a 
cab. We hooked it up in the same spot where the old one had 
been and then packed away the old one in the new box. A clever 
solution, we thought. Karen was due to arrive in May, and in 
the  meantime  we  wanted  to  keep  it  somewhere  out  of  sight. 
That was when we ran into a problem. 

Storage space was limited, as it is in most New York apart-
ments,  and  it  seemed  that  we  didn’t  have  any  left.  The  one 
closet that offered any hope was in the bedroom, but the ﬂoor 
was already crammed with boxes—three deep, two high, four 
across—and  there  wasn’t  enough  room  on  the  shelf  above. 
These  were  the  cartons  that  held  Fanshawe’s  things  (clothes, 
books, odds and ends), and they had been there since the day 
we moved in. Neither Sophie nor I had known what to do with 
them when she cleaned out her old place. We didn’t want to be 
surrounded  by  memories  of  Fanshawe  in  our  new  life,  but  at 
the same time it seemed wrong just to throw the things away. 
The  boxes  had  been  a  compromise,  and  eventually  we  no 
longer seemed to notice them. They became a part of the do-
mestic landscape—like the broken ﬂoorboard under the living 
room rug, like the crack in the wall above our bed—invisible in 
the ﬂux of daily life.  Now, as Sophie opened the door of the 
closet and looked inside, her mood suddenly changed. 

“Enough of this,” she said, squatting down in the closet. She 
pushed away the clothes that were draped over the boxes, click-
ing hangers against each other, parting the jumble in frustra-
tion. It was an abrupt anger, and it seemed to be directed more 
at herself than at me. 

“Enough of what?” I was standing on the other side of the 

bed, watching her back. 

“All of it,” she said, still ﬂinging the clothes back and forth. 

“Enough of Fanshawe and his boxes.” 

the locked room 

279 

“What do you want to do with them?” I sat down on the bed 
and waited for an answer, but she didn’t say anything. “What 
do you want to do with them, Sophie?” I asked again. 

She turned around and faced me, and I could see that she was 
on the point of tears. “What good is a closet if you can’t even 
use it?” she said. Her voice was trembling, losing control. “I 
mean he’s dead, isn’t he? And if he’s dead, why do we need all 
this . . .  all this”—gesturing, groping for the word—“garbage. 
It’s like living with a corpse.” 

“If you want, we can call the Salvation Army today,” I said. 
“Call them now. Before we say another word.” 
“I will. But ﬁrst we’ll have to open the boxes and sort through 

them.” 

“No. I want it to be everything, all at once.” 
“It’s ﬁne for the clothes,” I said. “But I wanted to hold on to 
the books for a while. I’ve been meaning to make a list, and I 
wanted to check for any notes in the margins. I could ﬁnish in 
half an hour.” 

Sophie looked at me in disbelief. “You don’t understand any-
thing, do you?” she said. And then, as she stood up, the tears 
ﬁnally came out of her eyes—child’s tears, tears that held noth-
ing  back,  falling  down  her  cheeks  as  if  she  didn’t  know  they 
were there. “I can’t get through to you anymore. You just don’t 
hear what I’m saying.” 

“I’m doing my best, Sophie.” 
“No,  you’re  not.  You  think  you  are,  but  you’re  not.  Don’t 

you see what’s happening? You’re bringing him back to life.” 

“I’m writing a book. That’s all—just a book. But if I don’t 

take it seriously, how can I hope to get it done?” 

“There’s more to it than that. I know it, I can feel it. If the 
two of us are going to last, he’s got to be dead. Don’t you un-
derstand that? Even if he’s alive, he’s got to be dead.” 
“What are you talking about? Of course he’s dead.” 
“Not for much longer. Not if you keep it up.” 
“But you were the one who got me started. You wanted me to 

do the book.” 

“That was a hundred years ago, my darling. I’m so afraid I’m 

going to lose you. I couldn’t take it if that happened.” 

280 

the new york trilogy 

“It’s almost ﬁnished, I promise. This trip is the last step.” 
“And then what?” 
“We’ll see. I can’t know what I’m getting into until I’m in it.” 
“That’s what I’m afraid of.” 
“You could go with me.” 
“To Paris?” 
“To Paris. The three of us could go together.” 
“I don’t think so. Not the way things are now. You go alone. 
At least then, if you come back, it will be because you want to.” 

“What do you mean ‘if ’?” 
“Just that. ‘If.’ As in, ‘if you come back.’ ” 
“You can’t believe that.” 
“But I do. If things go on like this, I’m going to lose you.” 
“Don’t talk like that, Sophie.” 
“I can’t help it. You’re so close to being gone already. I some-

times think I can see you vanishing before my eyes.” 

“That’s nonsense.” 
“You’re  wrong.  We’re  coming  to  the  end,  my  darling,  and 
you don’t even know it. You’re going to vanish, and I’ll never 
see you again.” 

8 

Things felt oddly bigger to me in Paris. The sky was more pres-
ent than in New York, its whims more fragile. I found myself 
drawn  to  it,  and  for  the  ﬁrst  day  or  two  I  watched  it 
constantly—sitting in my hotel room and studying the clouds, 
waiting for something to happen. These were northern clouds, 
the  dream  clouds  that  are  always  changing,  massing  up  into 
huge  gray  mountains,  discharging  brief  showers,  dissipating, 
gathering again, rolling across the sun, refracting the light in 
ways that always seem different. The Paris sky has its own laws, 
and they function independently of the city below. If the build-
ings appear solid, anchored in the earth, indestructible, the sky 
is vast and amorphous, subject to constant turmoil. For the ﬁrst 
week, I felt as though I had been turned upside-down. This was 
an old world city, and it had nothing to do with New York— 
with its slow skies and chaotic streets, its bland clouds and ag-
gressive  buildings.  I  had  been  displaced,  and  it  made  me 
suddenly unsure of myself. I felt my grip loosening, and at least 
once an hour I had to remind myself why I was there. 

My French was neither good nor bad. I had enough to under-
stand what people said to me, but speaking was difﬁcult, and 
there were times when no words came to my lips, when I strug-
gled to say even the simplest things. There was a certain plea-
sure in this, I believe—to experience language as a collection of 
sounds, to be forced to the surface of words where meanings 
vanish—but it was also quite wearing, and it had the effect of 
shutting  me  up  in  my  thoughts.  In  order  to  understand  what 
people  were  saying,  I  had  to  translate  everything  silently  into 
English,  which  meant  that  even  when  I  understood,  I  was 

282 

the new york trilogy 

understanding at one remove—doing twice the work and getting 
half the result. Nuances, subliminal associations, undercurrents— 
all these things were lost on me. In the end, it would probably not 
be wrong to say that everything was lost on me. 

Still, I pushed ahead. It took me a few days to get the investi-
gation  started,  but  once  I  made  my  ﬁrst  contact,  others  fol-
lowed.  There  were  a  number  of  disappointments,  however. 
Wyshnegradsky  was  dead;  I  was  unable  to  locate  any  of  the 
people Fanshawe had tutored in English; the woman who had 
hired  Fanshawe  at  the  New  York  Times  was  gone,  had  not 
worked there in years. Such things were to be expected, but I 
took them hard, knowing that even the smallest gap could be 
fatal. These were empty spaces for me, blanks in the picture, 
and no matter how successful I was in ﬁlling the other areas, 
doubts would remain, which meant that the work could never 
be truly ﬁnished. 

I spoke to the Dedmons, I spoke to the art book publishers 
Fanshawe had worked for, I spoke to the woman named Anne 
(a  girlfriend,  it  turned  out),  I  spoke  to  the  movie  producer. 
“Odd jobs,” he said to me, in Russian-accented English, “that’s 
what he did. Translations, script summaries, a little ghost writ-
ing for my wife. He was a smart boy, but too stiff. Very literary, 
if you know what I’m saying. I wanted to give him a chance to 
act—even offered to give him fencing and riding lessons for a 
picture we were going to do. I liked his looks, thought we could 
make something of him. But he wasn’t interested. I’ve got other 
eggs to fry, he said. Something like that. It didn’t matter. The 
picture made millions, and what do I care if the boy wants to 
act or not?” 

There  was  something  to  be  pursued  here,  but  as  I  sat  with 
this  man  in  his  monumental  apartment  on  the  Avenue  Henri 
Martin, waiting for each sentence of his story between phone 
calls, I suddenly realized that I didn’t need to hear any more. 
There  was  only  one  question  that  mattered,  and  this  man 
couldn’t  answer  it  for  me.  If  I  stayed  and  listened  to  him,  I 
would  be  given  more  details,  more  irrelevancies,  yet  another 
pile of useless notes. I had been pretending to write a book for 
too long now, and little by little I had forgotten my purpose. 

the locked room 

283 

Enough, I said to myself, consciously echoing Sophie, enough 
of this, and then I stood up and left. 

The point was that no one was watching me anymore. I no 
longer had to put up a front as I had at home, no longer had to 
delude  Sophie  by  creating  endless  busy-work  for  myself.  The 
charade was over. I could discard my nonexistent book at last. 
For  about  ten  minutes,  walking  back  to  my  hotel  across  the 
river, I felt happier than I had in months. Things had been sim-
pliﬁed, reduced to the clarity of a single problem. But then, the 
moment I absorbed this thought, I understood how bad the sit-
uation  really  was.  I  was  coming  to  the  end  now,  and  I  still 
hadn’t found him. The mistake I was looking for had never sur-
faced. There were no leads, no clues, no tracks to follow. Fan-
shawe  was  buried  somewhere,  and  his  whole  life  was  buried 
with him. Unless he wanted to be found, I didn’t have a ghost 
of a chance. 

Still, I pushed ahead, trying to come to the end, to the very 
end, burrowing blindly through the last interviews, not willing 
to give up until I had seen everyone. I wanted to call Sophie. 
One day, I even went so far as to walk to the post ofﬁce and 
wait  in  line  for  the  foreign  operator,  but  I  didn’t  go  through 
with it. Words were failing me constantly now, and I panicked 
at  the  thought  of  losing  my  nerve  on  the  phone.  What  was  I 
supposed to say, after all? Instead, I sent her a postcard with a 
photograph of Laurel and Hardy on it. On the back I wrote: 
“True marriages never make sense. Look at the couple on the 
other  side.  Proof  that  anything  is  possible,  no?  Perhaps  we 
should  start  wearing  derbies.  At  the  very  least,  remember  to 
clean out the closet before I return. Hugs to Ben.” 

I saw Anne Michaux the following afternoon, and she gave a 
little start when I entered the café where we had arranged to 
meet  (Le  Rouquet,  Boulevard  Saint-Germain).  What  she  told 
me  about  Fanshawe  is  not  important:  who  kissed  who,  what 
happened where, who said what, and so on. It comes down to 
more of the same. What I will mention, however, is that her ini-
tial double take was caused by the fact that she mistook me for 
Fanshawe. Just the briefest ﬂicker, as she put it, and then it was 
gone. The resemblance had been noticed before, of course, but 

284 

the new york trilogy 

never  so  viscerally,  with  such  immediate  impact.  I  must  have 
shown my reaction, for she quickly apologized (as if she had 
done something wrong) and returned to the point several times 
during the two or three hours we spent together—once even go-
ing out of her way to contradict herself: “I don’t know what I 
was thinking. You don’t look at all like him. It must have been 
the American in both of you.” 

Nevertheless, I found it disturbing, could not help feeling ap-
palled. Something monstrous was happening, and I had no con-
trol  over  it  anymore.  The  sky  was  growing  dark  inside—that 
much was certain; the ground was trembling. I found it hard to 
sit still, and I found it hard to move. From one moment to the 
next, I seemed to be in a different place, to forget where I was. 
Thoughts  stop  where  the  world  begins,  I  kept  telling  myself. 
But the self is also in the world, I answered, and likewise the 
thoughts that come from it. The problem was that I could no 
longer make the right distinctions. This can never be that. Ap-
ples are not oranges, peaches are not plums. You feel the differ-
ence on your tongue, and then you know, as if inside yourself. 
But everything was beginning to have the same taste to me. I no 
longer felt hungry, I could no longer bring myself to eat. 

As for the Dedmons, there is perhaps even less to say. Fan-
shawe could not have chosen more ﬁtting benefactors, and of 
all the people I saw in Paris, they were the kindest, the most gra-
cious. Invited to their apartment for drinks, I stayed on for din-
ner, and then, by the time we reached the second course, they 
were urging me to visit their house in the Var—the same house 
where Fanshawe had lived, and it needn’t be a short visit, they 
said, since they were not planning to go there themselves until 
August. It had been an important place for Fanshawe and his 
work, Mr. Dedmon said, and no doubt my book would be en-
hanced if I saw it myself. I couldn’t disagree with him, and no 
sooner were these words out of my mouth than Mrs. Dedmon 
was on the phone making arrangements for me in her precise 
and elegant French. 

There  was  nothing  to  hold  me  in  Paris  anymore,  and  so  I 
took the train the following afternoon. This was the end of the 
line  for  me,  my  southward  trek  to  oblivion.  Whatever  hope  I 

the locked room 

285 

might  have  had  (the  faint  possibility  that  Fanshawe  had  re-
turned to France, the illogical thought that he had found refuge 
in the same place twice) evaporated by the time I got there. The 
house was empty; there was no sign of anyone. On the second 
day, examining the rooms on the upper ﬂoor, I came across a 
short poem Fanshawe had written on the wall—but I knew that 
poem already, and under it there was a date: August 25, 1972. 
He had never come back. I felt foolish now even for thinking it. 
For want of anything better to do, I spent several days talking 
to people in the area: the nearby farmers, the villagers, the peo-
ple of surrounding towns. I introduced myself by showing them 
a  photograph  of  Fanshawe,  pretending  to  be  his  brother,  but 
feeling more like a down-and-out private eye, a buffoon clutch-
ing at straws. Some people remembered him, others didn’t, still 
others weren’t sure. It made no difference. I found the southern 
accent impenetrable (with its rolling r’s and nasalized endings) 
and barely understood a word that was said to me. Of all the 
people I saw, only one had heard from Fanshawe since his de-
parture.  This  was  his  closest  neighbor—a  tenant  farmer  who 
lived about a mile down the road. He was a peculiar little man 
of about forty, dirtier than anyone I had ever met. His house 
was  a  dank,  crumbling  seventeenth-century  structure,  and  he 
seemed  to  live  there  by  himself,  with  no  companions  but  his 
trufﬂe dog and hunting riﬂe. He was clearly proud of having 
been Fanshawe’s friend, and to prove how close they had been 
he showed me a white cowboy hat that Fanshawe had sent to 
him after returning to America. There was no reason not to be-
lieve his story. The hat was still in its original box and appar-
ently had never been worn. He explained that he was saving it 
for  the  right  moment,  and  then  launched  into  a  political  ha-
rangue that I had trouble following. The revolution was com-
ing, he said, and when it did, he was going to buy a white horse 
and  a  machine  gun,  put  on  his  hat,  and  ride  down  the  main 
street in town, plugging all the shopkeepers who had collabo-
rated with the Germans during the War. Just like in America, he 
added. When I asked him what he meant, he delivered a ram-
bling,  hallucinatory  lecture  about  cowboys  and  Indians.  But 
that was a long time ago, I said, trying to cut him short. No, no, 

286 

the new york trilogy 

he  insisted,  it  still  goes  on  today.  Didn’t  I  know  about  the 
shootouts on Fifth Avenue? Hadn’t I heard of the Apaches? It 
was pointless to argue. In defense of my ignorance, I told him 
that I lived in another neighborhood. 

I stayed on in the house for a few more days. My plan was to do 
nothing for as long as I could, to rest up. I was exhausted, and 
I needed a chance to regroup before going back to Paris. A day 
or two went by. I walked through the ﬁelds, visited the woods, 
sat out in the sun reading French translations of American de-
tective novels. It should have been the perfect cure: holing up in 
the middle of nowhere, letting my mind ﬂoat free. But none of 
it really helped. The house wouldn’t make room for me, and by 
the third day I sensed that I was no longer alone, that I could 
never be alone in that place. Fanshawe was there, and no matter 
how hard I tried not to think about him, I couldn’t escape. This 
was unexpected, galling. Now that I had stopped looking for 
him, he was more present to me than ever before. The whole 
process had been reversed. After all these months of trying to 
ﬁnd him, I felt as though I was the one who had been found. In-
stead  of  looking  for  Fanshawe,  I  had  actually  been  running 
away from him. The work I had contrived for myself—the false 
book, the endless detours—had been no more than an attempt 
to ward him off, a ruse to keep him as far away from me as pos-
sible. For if I could convince myself that I was looking for him, 
then  it  necessarily  followed  that  he  was  somewhere  else— 
somewhere beyond me, beyond the limits of my life. But I had 
been  wrong.  Fanshawe  was  exactly  where  I  was,  and  he  had 
been there since the beginning. From the moment his letter ar-
rived, I had been struggling to imagine him, to see him as he 
might have been—but my mind had always conjured a blank. 
At best, there was one impoverished image: the door of a locked 
room. That was the extent of it: Fanshawe alone in that room, 
condemned  to  a  mythical  solitude—living  perhaps,  breathing 
perhaps, dreaming God knows what. This room, I now discov-
ered, was located inside my skull. 

Strange things happened to me after that. I returned to Paris, 
but once there I found myself with nothing to do. I didn’t want 

the locked room 

287 

to look up any of the people I had seen before, and I didn’t have 
the courage to go back to New York. I became inert, a thing that 
could not move, and little by little I lost track of myself. If I am 
able to say anything about this period at all, it is only because I 
have certain documentary evidence to help me. The visa stamps 
in my passport, for example; my airplane ticket, my hotel bill, 
and so on. These things prove to me that I remained in Paris for 
more than a month. But that is very different from remember-
ing, and in spite of what I know, I still ﬁnd it impossible. I see 
things that happened, I encounter images of myself in various 
places, but only at a distance, as though I were watching some-
one  else.  None  of  it  feels  like  memory,  which  is  always  an-
chored within; it’s out there beyond what I can feel or touch, 
beyond anything that has to do with me. I have lost a month 
from my life, and even now it is a difﬁcult thing for me to con-
fess, a thing that ﬁlls me with shame. 

A month is a long time, more than enough time for a man to 
come apart. Those days come back to me in fragments when 
they  come  at  all,  bits  and  pieces  that  refuse  to  add  up.  I  see 
myself falling down drunk on the street one night, standing up, 
staggering towards a lamppost, and then vomiting all over my 
shoes. I see myself sitting in a movie theater with the lights on 
and watching a crowd of people ﬁle out around me, unable to 
remember the ﬁlm I had just seen. I see myself prowling the rue 
Saint-Denis at night, picking out prostitutes to sleep with, my 
head burning with the thought of bodies, an endless jumble of 
naked breasts, naked thighs, naked buttocks. I see my cock be-
ing sucked, I see myself on a bed with two girls kissing each 
other, I see an enormous black woman spreading her legs on a 
bidet  and  washing  her  cunt.  I  will  not  try  to  say  that  these 
things are not real, that they did not happen. It’s just that I can’t 
account  for  them.  I  was  fucking  the  brains  out  of  my  head, 
drinking  myself  into  another  world.  But  if  the  point  was  to 
obliterate  Fanshawe,  then  my  binge  was  a  success.  He  was 
gone—and I was gone along with him. 

The end, however, is clear to me. I have not forgotten it, and 
I  feel  lucky  to  have  kept  that  much.  The  entire  story  comes 
down to what happened at the end, and without that end inside 

288 

the new york trilogy 

me now, I could not have started this book. The same holds for 
the  two  books  that  come  before  it,  City  of  Glass  and  Ghosts. 
These three stories are ﬁnally the same story, but each one repre-
sents a different stage in my awareness of what it is about. I don’t 
claim to have solved any problems. I am merely suggesting that a 
moment came when it no longer frightened me to look at what 
had happened. If words followed, it was only because I had no 
choice  but  to  accept  them,  to  take  them  upon  myself  and  go 
where they wanted me to go. But that does not necessarily make 
the words important. I have been struggling to say goodbye to 
something for a long time now, and this struggle is all that really 
matters. The story is not in the words; it’s in the struggle. 

One  night,  I  found  myself  in  a  bar  near  the  Place  Pigalle. 
Found is the term I wish to use, for I have no idea of how I got 
there,  no  memory  of  entering  the  place  at  all.  It  was  one  of 
those clip joints that are common in the neighborhood: six or 
eight girls at the bar, the chance to sit at a table with one of 
them and buy an exorbitantly priced bottle of champagne, and 
then, if one is so inclined, the possibility of coming to a certain 
ﬁnancial agreement and retiring to the privacy of a room in the 
hotel next door. The scene begins for me as I’m sitting at one of 
the tables with a girl, just having received the bucket of cham-
pagne. The girl was Tahitian, I remember, and she was beauti-
ful: no more than nineteen or twenty, very small, and wearing a 
dress of white netting with nothing underneath, a crisscross of 
cables  over  her  smooth  brown  skin.  The  effect  was  superbly 
erotic.  I  remember  her  round  breasts  visible  in  the  diamond-
shaped openings, the overwhelming softness of her neck when I 
leaned over and kissed it. She told me her name, but I insisted 
on calling her Fayaway, telling her that she was an exile from 
Typee and that I was Herman Melville, an American sailor who 
had come all the way from New York to rescue her. She hadn’t 
the vaguest idea of what I was talking about, but she continued 
to  smile,  no  doubt  thinking  me  crazy  as  I  rambled  on  in  my 
sputtering  French,  unperturbed,  laughing  when  I  laughed,  al-
lowing me to kiss her wherever I liked. 

We were sitting in an alcove in the corner, and from my seat 
I was able to take in the rest of the room. Men came and went, 

the locked room 

289 

some popping their heads through the door and leaving, some 
staying for a drink at the bar, one or two going to a table as I 
had  done.  After  about  ﬁfteen  minutes,  a  young  man  came  in 
who was obviously American. He seemed nervous to me, as if 
he had never been in such a place before, but his French was 
surprisingly good, and as he ﬂuently ordered a whiskey at the 
bar and started talking to one of the girls, I saw that he meant 
to stay for a while. I studied him from my little nook, continu-
ing to run my hand along Fayaway’s leg and to nuzzle her with 
my face, but the longer he stood there, the more distracted I be-
came.  He  was  tall,  athletically  built,  with  sandy  hair  and  an 
open, somewhat boyish manner. I guessed his age at twenty-six 
or twenty-seven—a graduate student, perhaps, or else a young 
lawyer working for an American ﬁrm in Paris. I had never seen 
this  man  before,  and  yet  there  was  something  familiar  about 
him,  something  that  stopped  me  from  turning  away:  a  brief 
scald, a weird synapse of recognition. I tried out various names 
on him, shunted him through the past, unravelled the spool of 
associations—but nothing happened. He’s no one, I said to my-
self, ﬁnally giving up. And then, out of the blue, by some mud-
dled chain of reasoning, I ﬁnished the thought by adding: and if 
he’s no one, then he must be Fanshawe. I laughed out loud at 
my joke. Ever on the alert, Fayaway laughed with me. I knew 
that  nothing  could  be  more  absurd,  but  I  said  it  again:  Fan-
shawe. And then again: Fanshawe. And the more I said it, the 
more it pleased me to say it. Each time the word came out of 
my  mouth,  another  burst  of  laughter  followed.  I  was  intoxi-
cated by the sound of it; it drove me to a pitch of raucousness, 
and little by little Fayaway seemed to grow confused. She had 
probably thought I was referring to some sexual practice, mak-
ing some joke she couldn’t understand, but my repetitions had 
gradually  robbed  the  word  of  its  meaning,  and  she  began  to 
hear  it  as  a  threat.  I  looked  at  the  man  across  the  room  and 
spoke the word again. My happiness was immeasurable. I ex-
ulted in the sheer falsity of my assertion, celebrating the new 
power I had just bestowed upon myself. I was the sublime al-
chemist who could change the world at will. This man was Fan-
shawe because I said he was Fanshawe, and that was all there 

290 

the new york trilogy 

was to it. Nothing could stop me anymore. Without even paus-
ing  to  think,  I  whispered  into  Fayaway’s  ear  that  I  would  be 
right  back,  disengaged  myself  from  her  wonderful  arms,  and 
sauntered over to the pseudo-Fanshawe at the bar. In my best 
imitation of an Oxford accent, I said: 

“Well, old man, fancy that. We meet again.” 
He turned around and looked at me carefully. The smile that 
had been forming on his face slowly diminished into a frown. 
“Do I know you?” he ﬁnally asked. 

“Of course you do,” I said, all bluster and good humor. “The 
name’s Melville. Herman Melville. Perhaps you’ve read some of 
my books.” 

He didn’t know whether to treat me as a jovial drunk or a 
dangerous psychopath, and the confusion showed on his face. It 
was a splendid confusion, and I enjoyed it thoroughly. 

“Well,” he said at last, forcing out a little smile, “I might have 

read one or two.” 

“The one about the whale, no doubt.” 
“Yes. The one about the whale.” 
“I’m glad to hear it,” I said, nodding pleasantly, and then put 
my arm around his shoulder. “And so, Fanshawe,” I said, “what 
brings you to Paris this time of year?” 

The confusion returned to his face. “Sorry,” he said, “I didn’t 

catch that name.” 

“Fanshawe.” 
“Fanshawe?” 
“Fanshawe. F-A-N-S-H-A-W-E.” 
“Well,” he said, relaxing into a broad grin, suddenly sure of 
himself again, “that’s the problem right there. You’ve mixed me 
up with someone else. My name isn’t Fanshawe. It’s Stillman. 
Peter Stillman.” 

“No problem,” I answered, giving him a little squeeze. “If you 
want to call yourself Stillman, that’s ﬁne with me. Names aren’t 
important, after all. What matters is that I know who you really 
are.  You’re  Fanshawe.  I  knew  it  the  moment  you  walked  in. 
‘There’s the old devil himself,’ I said. ‘I wonder what he’s doing 
in a place like this?’ ” 

He was beginning to lose patience with me now. He removed 

the locked room 

291 

my arm from his shoulder and backed off. “That’s enough,” he 
said. “You’ve made a mistake, and let’s leave it at that. I don’t 
want to talk to you anymore.” 

“Too late,” I said. “Your secret’s out, my friend. There’s no 

way to hide from me now.” 

“Leave me alone,” he said, showing anger for the ﬁrst time. 
“I don’t talk to lunatics. Leave me alone, or there’ll be trouble.” 
The  other  people  in  the  bar  couldn’t  understand  what  we 
were saying, but the tension had become obvious, and I could 
feel myself being watched, could feel the mood shift around me. 
Stillman  suddenly  seemed  to  panic.  He  shot  a  glance  at  the 
woman behind the bar, looked apprehensively at the girl beside 
him, and then made an impulsive decision to leave. He pushed 
me out of his way and started for the door. I could have let it go 
at that, but I didn’t. I was just getting warmed up, and I didn’t 
want my inspiration to be wasted. I went back to where Fay-
away was sitting and put a few hundred francs on the table. She 
feigned  a  pout  in  response.  “C’est  mon  frère,”  I  said.  “Il  est 
fou.  Je  dois  le  poursuivre.”  And  then,  as  she  reached  for  the 
money, I blew her a kiss, turned around, and left. 

Stillman  was  twenty  or  thirty  yards  ahead  of  me,  walking 
quickly down the street. I kept pace with him, hanging back to 
avoid  being  noticed,  but  not  letting  him  move  out  of  sight. 
Every  now  and  then  he  looked  back  over  his  shoulder,  as 
though expecting me to be there, but I don’t think he saw me 
until  we  were  well  out  of  the  neighborhood,  away  from  the 
crowds  and  commotion,  slicing  through  the  quiet,  darkened 
core of the Right Bank. The encounter had spooked him, and 
he behaved like a man running for his life. But that was not dif-
ﬁcult to understand. I was the thing we all fear most: the bel-
ligerent stranger who steps out from the shadows, the knife that 
stabs us in the back, the speeding car that crushes us to death. 
He  was  right  to  be  running,  but  his  fear  only  egged  me  on, 
goaded me to pursue him, made me rabid with determination. 
I had no plan, no idea of what I was going to do, but I followed 
him  without  the  slightest  doubt,  knowing  that  my  whole  life 
hinged on it. It is important to stress that by now I was com-
pletely  lucid—no  wobbling,  no  drunkenness,  utterly  clear  in 

292 

the new york trilogy 

my head. I realized that I was acting outrageously. Stillman was 
not Fanshawe—I knew that. He was an arbitrary choice, totally 
innocent and blank. But that was the thing that thrilled me— 
the  randomness  of  it,  the  vertigo  of  pure  chance.  It  made  no 
sense, and because of that, it made all the sense in the world. 

A moment came when the only sounds in the street were our 
footsteps. Stillman looked back again and ﬁnally saw me. He 
began  moving  faster,  breaking  into  a  trot.  I  called  after  him: 
“Fanshawe.” I called after him again: “It’s too late. I know who 
you are, Fanshawe.” And then, on the next street: “It’s all over, 
Fanshawe. You’ll never get away.” Stillman said nothing in re-
sponse, did not even bother to turn around. I wanted to keep 
talking to him, but by now he was running, and if I tried to 
talk,  it  would  only  have  slowed  me  down.  I  abandoned 
my taunts and went after him. I have no idea how long we ran, 
but it seemed to go on for hours. He was younger than I was, 
younger and stronger, and I almost lost him, almost didn’t make 
it. I pushed myself down the dark street, passing the point of ex-
haustion,  of  sickness,  frantically  hurtling  toward  him,  not  al-
lowing myself to stop. Long before I reached him, long before I 
even knew I was going to reach him, I felt as though I was no 
longer inside myself. I can think of no other way to express it. I 
couldn’t feel myself anymore. The sensation of life had dribbled 
out of me, and in its place there was a miraculous euphoria, a 
sweet poison rushing through my blood, the undeniable odor of 
nothingness. This is the moment of my death, I said to myself, 
this  is  when  I  die.  A  second  later,  I  caught  up  to  Stillman 
and tackled  him  from  behind.  We  went  crashing  to  the  pave-
ment, the two of us grunting on impact. I had used up all my 
strength,  and  by  now  I  was  too  short  of  breath  to  defend 
myself, too drained to struggle. Not a word was said. For sev-
eral seconds we grappled on the sidewalk, but then he managed 
to  break  free  of  my  grip,  and  after  that  there  was  nothing  I 
could  do.  He  started  pounding  me  with  his  ﬁsts,  kicking  me 
with the points of his shoes, pummelling me all over. I remem-
ber trying to protect my face with my hands; I remember the 
pain and how it stunned me, how much it hurt and how desper-
ately I wanted not to feel it anymore. But it couldn’t have lasted 

the locked room 

293 

very long, for nothing else comes back to me. Stillman tore me 
apart, and by the time he was ﬁnished, I was out cold. I can re-
member waking up on the sidewalk and being surprised that it 
was still night, but that’s the extent of it. Everything else is gone. 
For the next three days I didn’t move from my hotel room. 
The shock was not so much that I was in pain, but that it would 
not be strong enough to kill me. I realized this by the second or 
third  day.  At  a  certain  moment,  lying  there  on  the  bed  and 
looking at the slats of the closed shutters, I understood that I 
had lived through it. It felt strange to be alive, almost incom-
prehensible. One of my ﬁngers was broken; both temples were 
gashed; it ached even to breathe. But that was somehow beside 
the point. I was alive, and the more I thought about it, the less I 
understood. It did not seem possible that I had been spared. 

Later that same night, I wired Sophie that I was coming home. 

9 

I am nearly at the end now. There is one thing left, but that did 
not happen until later, until three more years had passed. In the 
meantime, there were many difﬁculties, many dramas, but I do 
not think they belong to the story I am trying to tell. After my 
return to New York, Sophie and I lived apart for almost a year. 
She had given up on me, and there were months of confusion 
before I ﬁnally won her back. From the vantage point of this 
moment (May 1984), that is the only thing that matters. Beside 
it, the facts of my life are purely incidental. 

On  February  23,  1981,  Ben’s  baby  brother  was  born.  We 
named  him  Paul,  in  memory  of  Sophie’s  grandfather.  Several 
months later (in July) we moved across the river, renting the top 
two ﬂoors of a brownstone house in Brooklyn. In September, 
Ben started kindergarten. We all went to Minnesota for Christ-
mas, and by the time we got back, Paul was walking on his own. 
Ben, who had gradually taken him under his wing, claimed full 
credit for the development. 

As for Fanshawe, Sophie and I never talked about him. This 
was our silent pact, and the longer we said nothing, the more 
we proved our loyalty to each other. After I returned the ad-
vance money to Stuart Green and ofﬁcially stopped writing the 
biography, we mentioned him only once. That came on the day 
we decided to live together again, and it was couched in strictly 
practical terms. Fanshawe’s books and plays had continued to 
produce  a  good  income.  If  we  were  going  to  stay  married, 
Sophie said, then using the money for ourselves was out of the 
question. I agreed with her. We found other ways to earn what 
we had to and placed the royalty money in trust for Ben—and 

the locked room 

295 

subsequently for Paul as well. As a ﬁnal step, we hired a literary 
agent to manage the business of Fanshawe’s work: requests to 
perform plays, reprint negotiations, contracts, whatever needed 
to be done. To the extent that we were able to act, we did. If 
Fanshawe still had the power to destroy us, it would only be be-
cause  we  wanted  him  to,  because  we  wanted  to  destroy  our-
selves.  That  was  why  I  never  bothered  to  tell  Sophie  the 
truth—not because it frightened me, but because the truth was 
no longer important. Our strength was in our silence, and I had 
no intention of breaking it. 

Still,  I  knew  that  the  story  wasn’t  over.  My  last  month  in 
Paris had taught me that, and little by little I learned to accept 
it. It was only a matter of time before the next thing happened. 
This seemed inevitable to me, and rather than deny it anymore, 
rather than delude myself with the thought that I could ever get 
rid of Fanshawe, I tried to prepare myself for it, tried to make 
myself ready for anything. It is the power of this anything, I be-
lieve, that has made the story so difﬁcult to tell. For when any-
thing  can  happen—that  is  the  precise  moment  when  words 
begin to fail. To the degree that Fanshawe became inevitable, 
that was the degree to which he was no longer there. I learned 
to accept this. I learned to live with him in the same way I lived 
with the thought of my own death. Fanshawe himself was not 
death—but he was like death, and he functioned as a trope for 
death  inside  me.  If  not  for  my  breakdown  in  Paris,  I  never 
would  have  understood  this.  I  did  not  die  there,  but  I  came 
close, and there was a moment, perhaps there were several mo-
ments, when I tasted death, when I saw myself dead. There is no 
cure for such an encounter. Once it happens, it goes on happen-
ing; you live with it for the rest of your life. 

The  letter  came  early  in  the  spring  of  1982.  This  time  the 
postmark was from Boston, and the message was terse, more 
urgent  than  before.  “Impossible  to  hold  out  any  longer,”  it 
said. “Must talk to you. 9 Columbus Square, Boston; April 1st. 
This is where it ends, I promise.” 

I  had  less  than  a  week  to  invent  an  excuse  for  going  to 
Boston.  This  turned  out  to  be  more  difﬁcult  than  it  should 
have been. Although I persisted in not wanting Sophie to know 

296 

the new york trilogy 

anything  (feeling  that  it  was  the  least  I  could  do  for  her),  I 
somehow balked at telling another lie, even though it had to be 
done. Two or three days slipped by without any progress, and 
in the end I concocted some lame story about having to consult 
papers in the Harvard library. I can’t even remember what pa-
pers they were supposed to be. Something to do with an article 
I was going to write, I think, but that could be wrong. The im-
portant  thing  was  that  Sophie  did  not  raise  any  objections. 
Fine, she said, go right ahead, and so on. My gut feeling is that 
she suspected something was up, but that is only a feeling, and 
it would be pointless to speculate about it here. Where Sophie 
is concerned, I tend to believe that nothing is hidden. 

I  booked  a  seat  for  April  ﬁrst  on  the  early  train.  On  the 
morning of my departure, Paul woke up a little before ﬁve and 
climbed  into  bed  with  us.  I  roused  myself  an  hour  later  and 
crept  out  of  the  room,  pausing  brieﬂy  at  the  door  to  watch 
Sophie and the baby in the dim gray light—sprawled out, im-
pervious, the bodies I belonged to. Ben was in the kitchen up-
stairs, already dressed, eating a banana and drawing pictures. I 
scrambled some eggs for the two of us and told him that I was 
about  to  take  a  train  to  Boston.  He  wanted  to  know  where 
Boston was. 

“About two hundred miles from here,” I said. 
“Is that as far away as space?” 
“If you went straight up, you’d be getting close.” 
“I think you should go to the moon. A rocket ship is better 

than a train.” 

“I’ll do that on the way back. They have regular ﬂights from 
Boston to the moon on Fridays. I’ll reserve a seat the moment 
I get there.” 

“Good. Then you can tell me what it’s like.” 
“If I ﬁnd a moon rock, I’ll bring one back for you.” 
“What about Paul?” 
“I’ll get one for him, too.” 
“No thanks.” 
“What does that mean?” 
“I don’t want a moon rock. Paul would put his in his mouth 

and choke.” 

the locked room 

297 

“What would you like instead?” 
“An elephant.” 
“There aren’t any elephants in space.” 
“I know that. But you aren’t going to space.” 
“True.” 
“And I bet there are elephants in Boston.” 
“You’re  probably  right.  Do  you  want  a  pink  elephant  or  a 

white elephant?” 

“A gray elephant. A big fat one with lots of wrinkles.” 
“No problem. Those are the easiest ones to ﬁnd. Would you 
like  it  wrapped  up  in  a  box,  or  should  I  bring  it  home  on  a 
leash?” 

“I think you should ride it home. Sitting on top with a crown 

on your head. Just like an emperor.” 

“The emperor of what?” 
“The emperor of little boys.” 
“Do I get to have an empress?” 
“Of course. Mommy is the empress. She’d like that. Maybe 

we should wake her up and tell her.” 

“Let’s not. I’d rather surprise her with it when I get home.” 
“Good idea. She won’t believe it until she sees it anyway.” 
“Exactly. And we don’t want her to be disappointed. In case 

I can’t ﬁnd the elephant.” 

“Oh, you’ll ﬁnd it, Dad. Don’t worry about that.” 
“How can you be so sure?” 
“Because you’re the emperor. An emperor can get anything 

he wants.” 

It rained the whole way up, the sky even threatening snow by 
the time we reached Providence. In Boston, I bought myself an 
umbrella and covered the last two or three miles on foot. The 
streets were gloomy in the piss-gray air, and as I walked to the 
South End, I saw almost no one: a drunk, a group of teenagers, 
a telephone man, two or three stray mutts. Columbus Square 
consisted of ten or twelve houses in a row, fronting on a cob-
bled island that cut it off from the main thoroughfare. Number 
nine was the most dilapidated of the lot—four stories like the 
others, but sagging, with boards propping up the entranceway 

298 

the new york trilogy 

and the brick facade in need of mending. Still, there was an im-
pressive solidity to it, a nineteenth-century elegance that contin-
ued to show through the cracks. I imagined large rooms with 
high ceilings, comfortable ledges by the bay window, molded 
ornaments in the plaster. But I did not get to see any of these 
things. As it turned out, I never got beyond the front hall. 

There was a rusted metal clapper in the door, a half-sphere 
with a handle in the center, and when I twisted the handle, it 
made the sound of someone retching—a mufﬂed, gagging sound 
that did not carry very far. I waited, but nothing happened. I 
twisted the bell again, but no one came. Then, testing the door 
with  my  hand,  I  saw  that  it  wasn’t  locked—pushed  it  open, 
paused, and went in. The front hall was empty. To my right was 
the  staircase,  with  its  mahogany  banister  and  bare  wooden 
steps; to my left were closed double doors, blocking off what 
was no doubt the parlor; straight ahead there was another door, 
also closed, that probably led to the kitchen. I hesitated for a 
moment, decided on the stairs, and was about to go up when I 
heard  something  from  behind  the  double  doors—a  faint  tap-
ping, followed by a voice I couldn’t understand. I turned from 
the  staircase  and  looked  at  the  door,  listening  for  the  voice 
again. Nothing happened. 

A  long  silence.  Then,  almost  in  a  whisper,  the  voice  spoke 

again. “In here,” it said. 

I went to the doors and pressed my ear against the crack be-

tween them. “Is that you, Fanshawe?” 

“Don’t  use  that  name,”  the  voice  said,  more  distinctly  this 
time. “I won’t allow you to use that name.” The mouth of the 
person inside was lined up directly with my ear. Only the door 
was between us, and we were so close that I felt as if the words 
were being poured into my head. It was like listening to a man’s 
heart beating in his chest, like searching a body for a pulse. He 
stopped talking, and I could feel his breath slithering through 
the crack. 

“Let me in,” I said. “Open the door and let me in.” 
“I can’t do that,” the voice answered. “We’ll have to talk like 

this.” 

I  grabbed  hold  of  the  door  knob  and  shook  the  doors  in 

the locked room 

299 

frustration. “Open up,” I said. “Open up, or I’ll break the door 
down.” 

“No,” said the voice. “The door stays closed.” By now I was 
convinced that it was Fanshawe in there. I wanted it to be an 
imposter, but I recognized too much in that voice to pretend it 
was anyone else. “I’m standing here with a gun,” he said, “and 
it’s  pointed  right  at  you.  If  you  come  through  the  door,  I’ll 
shoot.” 

“I don’t believe you.” 
“Listen  to  this,”  he  said,  and  then  I  heard  him  turn  away 
from the door. A second later a gun went off, followed by the 
sound of plaster falling to the ﬂoor. I tried to peer through the 
crack in the meantime, hoping to catch a glimpse of the room, 
but the space was too narrow. I could see no more than a thread 
of light, a single gray ﬁlament. Then the mouth returned, and I 
could no longer see even that. 

“All right,” I said, “you have a gun. But if you don’t let me 

see you, how will I know you are who you say you are?” 

“I haven’t said who I am.” 
“Let me put it another way. How can I know I’m talking to 

the right person?” 

“You’ll have to trust me.” 
“At  this  late  date,  trust  is  about  the  last  thing  you  should 

expect.” 

“I’m  telling  you  that  I’m  the  right  person.  That  should  be 
enough. You’ve come to the right place, and I’m the right person.” 
“I  thought  you  wanted  to  see  me.  That’s  what  you  said  in 

your letter.” 

“I said that I wanted to talk to you. There’s a difference.” 
“Let’s not split hairs.” 
“I’m just reminding you of what I wrote.” 
“Don’t push me too far, Fanshawe. There’s nothing to stop 

me from walking out.” 

I heard a sudden intake of breath, and then a hand slapped 
violently against the door. “Not Fanshawe!” he shouted. “Not 
Fanshawe—ever again!” 

I  let  a  few  moments  pass,  not  wanting  to  provoke  another 
outburst. The mouth withdrew from the crack, and I imagined 

300 

the new york trilogy 

that  I  heard  groans  from  somewhere  in  the  middle  of  the 
room—groans or sobs, I couldn’t tell which. I stood there wait-
ing, not knowing what to say next. Eventually, the mouth re-
turned, and after another long pause Fanshawe said, “Are you 
still there?” 

“Yes.” 
“Forgive me. I didn’t want it to begin like this.” 
“Just remember,” I said, “I’m only here because you asked 

me to come.” 

“I know that. And I’m grateful to you for it.” 
“It might help if you explained why you invited me.” 
“Later. I don’t want to talk about that yet.” 
“Then what?” 
“Other things. The things that have happened.” 
“I’m listening.” 
“Because I don’t want you to hate me. Can you understand 

that?” 

“I don’t hate you. There was a time when I did, but I’m over 

that now.” 

“Today is my last day, you see. And I had to make sure.” 
“Is this where you’ve been all along?” 
“I came here about two years ago, I think.” 
“And before that?” 
“Here and there. That man was after me, and I had to keep 
moving. It gave me a feeling for travel, a real taste for it. Not at 
all what I had expected. My plan had always been to sit still 
and let the time run out.” 

“You’re talking about Quinn?” 
“Yes. The private detective.” 
“Did he ﬁnd you?” 
“Twice. Once in New York. The next time down South.” 
“Why did he lie about it?” 
“Because I scared him to death. He knew what would hap -

pen to him if anyone found out.” 

“He disappeared, you know. I couldn’t ﬁnd a trace of him.” 
“He’s somewhere. It’s not important.” 
“How did you manage to get rid of him?” 
“I  turned  everything  around.  He  thought  he  was  following 

the locked room 

301 

me, but in fact I was following him. He found me in New York, 
of course, but I got away—wriggled right through his arms. Af-
ter  that,  it  was  like  playing  a  game.  I  led  him  along,  leaving 
clues for him everywhere, making it impossible for him not to 
ﬁnd me. But I was watching him the whole time, and when the 
moment  came,  I  set  him  up,  and  he  walked  straight  into  my 
trap.” 

“Very clever.” 
“No. It was stupid. But I didn’t have any choice. It was either 
that or get hauled back—which would have meant being treated 
like a crazy man. I hated myself for it. He was only doing his 
job, after all, and it made me feel sorry for him. Pity disgusts me, 
especially when I ﬁnd it in myself.” 

“And then?” 
“I couldn’t be sure if my trick had really worked. I thought 
Quinn might come after me again. And so I kept on moving, 
even when I didn’t have to. I lost about a year like that.” 

“Where did you go?” 
“The  South,  the  Southwest.  I  wanted  to  stay  where  it  was 
warm.  I  travelled  on  foot,  you  see,  slept  outside,  tried  to  go 
where  there  weren’t  many  people.  It’s  an  enormous  country, 
you know. Absolutely bewildering. At one point, I stayed in the 
desert  for  about  two  months.  Later,  I  lived  in  a  shack  at  the 
edge of a Hopi reservation in Arizona. The Indians had a tribal 
council before giving me permission to stay there.” 

“You’re making this up.” 
“I’m not asking you to believe me. I’m telling you the story, 

that’s all. You can think anything you want.” 

“And then?” 
“I was somewhere in New Mexico. I went into a diner along 
the road one day to get a bite to eat, and someone had left a 
newspaper on the counter. So I picked it up and read it. That’s 
when I found out that a book of mine had been published.” 

“Were you surprised?” 
“That’s not quite the word I would use.” 
“What, then?” 
“I don’t know. Angry, I think. Upset.” 
“I don’t understand.” 

302 

the new york trilogy 

“I was angry because the book was garbage.” 
“Writers never know how to judge their work.” 
“No, the book was garbage, believe me. Everything I did was 

garbage.” 

“Then why didn’t you destroy it?” 
“I was too attached to it. But that doesn’t make it good. A 
baby  is  attached  to  his  caca,  but  no  one  fusses  about  it.  It’s 
strictly his own business.” 

“Then  why  did  you  make  Sophie  promise  to  show  me  the 

work?” 

“To appease her. But you know that already. You ﬁgured that 
out a long time ago. That was my excuse. My real reason was 
to ﬁnd a new husband for her.” 

“It worked.” 
“It had to work. I didn’t pick just anyone, you know.” 
“And the manuscripts?” 
“I thought you would throw them away. It never occurred to 

me that anyone would take the work seriously.” 

“What  did  you  do  after  you  read  that  the  book  had  been 

published?” 

“I went back to New York. It was an absurd thing to do, but 
I was a little beside myself, not thinking clearly anymore. The 
book trapped me into what I had done, you see, and I had to 
wrestle with it all over again. Once the book was published, I 
couldn’t turn back.” 

“I thought you were dead.” 
“That’s what you were supposed to think. If nothing else, it 
proved to me that Quinn was no longer a problem. But this new 
problem was much worse. That’s when I wrote you the letter.” 

“That was a vicious thing to do.” 
“I was angry at you. I wanted you to suffer, to live with the 
same things I had to live with. The instant after I dropped it in 
the mailbox, I regretted it.” 

“Too late.” 
“Yes. Too late.” 
“How long did you stay in New York?” 
“I don’t know. Six or eight months, I think.” 
“How did you live? How did you earn the money to live?” 

the locked room 

303 

“I stole things.” 
“Why don’t you tell the truth?” 
“I’m  doing  my  best.  I’m  telling  you  everything  I’m  able  to 

tell.” 

“What else did you do in New York?” 
“I  watched  you.  I  watched  you  and  Sophie  and  the  baby. 
There was even a time when I camped outside your apartment 
building. For two or three weeks, maybe a month. I followed 
you everywhere you went. Once or twice, I even bumped into 
you on the street, looked you straight in the eye. But you never 
noticed. It was fantastic the way you didn’t see me.” 

“You’re making all this up.” 
“I must not look the same anymore.” 
“No one can change that much.” 
“I think I’m unrecognizable. But that was a lucky thing for 
you. If anything had happened, I probably would have killed 
you. That whole time in New York, I was ﬁlled with murderous 
thoughts. Bad stuff. I came close to a kind of horror there.” 

“What stopped you?” 
“I found the courage to leave.” 
“That was noble of you.” 
“I’m  not  trying  to  defend  myself.  I’m  just  giving  you  the 

story.” 

“Then what?” 
“I shipped out again. I still had my merchant seaman’s card, 
and I signed on with a Greek freighter. It was disgusting, truly 
repulsive from beginning to end. But I deserved it; it was ex-
actly what I wanted. The ship went everywhere—India, Japan, 
all over the world. I didn’t get off once. Every time we came 
to a port, I would go down to my cabin and lock myself in. I 
spent two years like that, seeing nothing, doing nothing, living 
like a dead man.” 

“While I was trying to write the story of your life.” 
“Is that what you were doing?” 
“So it would seem.” 
“A big mistake.” 
“You don’t have to tell me. I found that out for myself.” 
“The ship pulled into Boston one day, and I decided to get 

304 

the new york trilogy 

off.  I  had  saved  a  tremendous  amount  of  money,  more  than 
enough to buy this house. I’ve been here ever since.” 

“What name have you been using?” 
“Henry Dark. But no one knows who I am. I never go out. 
There’s a woman who comes twice a week and brings me what 
I need, but I never see her. I leave her a note at the foot of the 
stairs, along with the money I owe her. It’s a simple and effec-
tive arrangement. You’re the ﬁrst person I’ve spoken to in two 
years.” 

“Do you ever think that you’re out of your mind?” 
“I know it looks like that to you—but I’m not, believe me. 
I don’t even want to waste my breath talking about it. What I 
need for myself is very different from what other people need.” 

“Isn’t this house a bit big for one person?” 
“Much too big. I haven’t been above the ground ﬂoor since 

the day I moved in.” 

“Then why did you buy it?” 
“It cost almost nothing. And I liked the name of the street. It 

appealed to me.” 

“Columbus Square?” 
“Yes.” 
“I don’t follow.” 
“It seemed like a good omen. Coming back to America—and 
then ﬁnding a house on a street named after Columbus. There 
was a certain logic to it.” 

“And this is where you’re planning to die.” 
“Exactly.” 
“Your ﬁrst letter said seven years. You still have a year to go.” 
“I’ve proved the point to myself. There’s no need to go on 

with it. I’m tired. I’ve had enough.” 

“Did you ask me to come here because you thought I would 

stop you?” 

“No. Not at all. I’m not expecting anything from you.” 
“Then what do you want?” 
“I have some things to give you. At a certain point, I realized 
that I owed you an explanation for what I did. At least an at-
tempt. I’ve spent the past six months trying to get it down on 
paper.” 

the locked room 

305 

“I thought you gave up writing for good.” 
“This is different. It has no connection with what I used to do.” 
“Where is it?” 
“Behind you. On the ﬂoor of the closet under the stairs. A red 

notebook.” 

I turned around, opened the closet door, and picked up the 
notebook.  It  was  a  standard  spiral  affair  with  two  hundred 
ruled pages. I gave a quick glance at the contents and saw that 
all the pages had been ﬁlled: the same familiar writing, the same 
black ink, the same small letters. I stood up and returned to the 
crack between the doors. 
“What now?” I asked. 
“Take it home with you. Read it.” 
“What if I can’t?” 
“Then save it for the boy. He might want to see it when he 

grows up.” 

“I don’t think you have any right to ask that.” 
“He’s my son.” 
“No, he’s not. He’s mine.” 
“I won’t insist. Read it yourself, then. It was written for you 

anyway.” 

“And Sophie?” 
“No. You mustn’t tell her.” 
“That’s the one thing I’ll never understand.” 
“Sophie?” 
“How you could walk out on her like that. What did she ever 

do to you?” 

“Nothing. It wasn’t her fault. You must know that by now. 

It’s just that I wasn’t meant to live like other people.” 

“How were you meant to live?” 
“It’s  all  in  the  notebook.  Whatever  I  managed  to  say  now 

would only distort the truth.” 

“Is there anything else?” 
“No, I don’t think so. We’ve probably come to the end.” 
“I don’t believe you have the nerve to shoot me. If I broke 

down the door now, you wouldn’t do a thing.” 

“Don’t risk it. You’d die for nothing.” 
“I’d pull the gun out of your hand. I’d knock you senseless.” 

306 

the new york trilogy 

“There’s  no  point  to  that.  I’m  already  dead.  I  took  poison 

hours ago.” 

“I don’t believe you.” 
“You  can’t  possibly  know  what’s  true  or  not  true.  You’ll 

never know.” 

“I’ll call the police. They’ll chop down the door and drag you 

off to the hospital.” 

“One sound at the door—and a bullet goes through my head. 

There’s no way you can win.” 

“Is death so tempting?” 
“I’ve lived with it for so long now, it’s the only thing I have 

left.” 

I no longer knew what to say. Fanshawe had used me up, and 
as I heard him breathing on the other side of the door, I felt as 
if the life were being sucked out of me. “You’re a fool,” I said, 
unable to think of anything else. “You’re a fool, and you de-
serve  to  die.”  Then,  overwhelmed  by  my  own  weakness  and 
stupidity,  I  started  pounding  the  door  like  a  child,  shaking 
and sputtering, on the point of tears. 

“You’d better go now,” Fanshawe said. “There’s no reason to 

drag this out.” 

“I  don’t  want  to  go,”  I  said.  “We  still  have  things  to  talk 

about.” 

“No, we don’t. It’s ﬁnished. Take the notebook and go back 

to New York. That’s all I ask of you.” 

I was so exhausted that for a moment I thought I was going 
to fall down. I clung to the doorknob for support, my head go-
ing black inside, struggling not to pass out. After that, I have no 
memory of what happened. I found myself outside, in front of 
the house, the umbrella in one hand and the red notebook in the 
other.  The  rain  had  stopped,  but  the  air  was  still  raw,  and  I 
could  feel  the  dankness  in  my  lungs.  I  watched  a  large  truck 
clatter by in the trafﬁc, following its red taillight until I couldn’t 
see  it  anymore.  When  I  looked  up,  I  saw  that  it  was  almost 
night.  I  started  walking  away  from  the  house,  mechanically 
putting one foot in front of the other, unable to concentrate on 
where I was going. I think I fell down once or twice. At one 

the locked room 

307 

point, I remember waiting on a corner and trying to get a cab, 
but  no  one  stopped  for  me.  A  few  minutes  after  that,  the 
umbrella slipped from my hand and fell into a puddle. I didn’t 
bother to pick it up. 

It was just after seven o’clock when I arrived at South Station. 
A train for New York had left ﬁfteen minutes earlier, and the 
next one wasn’t scheduled until eight-thirty. I sat down on one 
of the wooden benches with the red notebook on my lap. A few 
late commuters straggled in; a janitor slowly moved across the 
marble ﬂoor with a mop; I listened in as two men talked about 
the Red Sox behind me. After ten minutes of ﬁghting off the 
impulse, I at last opened the notebook. I read steadily for al-
most an hour, ﬂipping back and forth among the pages, trying 
to get a sense of what Fanshawe had written. If I say nothing 
about what I found there, it is because I understood very little. 
All the words were familiar to me, and yet they seemed to have 
been put together strangely, as though their ﬁnal purpose was to 
cancel each other out. I can think of no other way to express it. 
Each  sentence  erased  the  sentence  before  it,  each  paragraph 
made  the  next  paragraph  impossible.  It  is  odd,  then,  that  the 
feeling that survives from this notebook is one of great lucidity. 
It is as if Fanshawe knew his ﬁnal work had to subvert every ex-
pectation I had for it. These were not the words of a man who 
regretted  anything.  He  had  answered  the  question  by  asking 
another question, and therefore everything remained open, un-
ﬁnished, to be started again. I lost my way after the ﬁrst word, 
and  from  then  on  I  could  only  grope  ahead,  faltering  in  the 
darkness,  blinded  by  the  book  that  had  been  written  for  me. 
And yet, underneath this confusion, I felt there was something 
too willed, something too perfect, as though in the end the only 
thing  he  had  really  wanted  was  to  fail—even  to  the  point  of 
failing himself. I could be wrong, however. I was hardly in a 
condition to be reading anything at that moment, and my judg-
ment is possibly askew. I was there, I read those words with my 
own eyes, and yet I ﬁnd it hard to trust in what I am saying. 

I wandered out to the tracks several minutes in advance. It 
was raining again, and I could see my breath in the air before 

308 

the new york trilogy 

me, leaving my mouth in little bursts of fog. One by one, I tore 
the pages from the notebook, crumpled them in my hand, and 
dropped them into a trash bin on the platform. I came to the 
last page just as the train was pulling out. 

(1984) 

